The Project Gutenberg eBook of Physiological economy in nutrition
with special reference to the minimal proteid requirement of the healthy
man, by Russell H. Chittenden

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Physiological economy in nutrition with special reference to the
       minimal proteid requirement of the healthy man
       an experimental study

Author: Russell H. Chittenden

Release Date: November 28, 2022 [eBook #69439]

Language: English

Produced by: Mark C. Orton and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN
NUTRITION WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE MINIMAL PROTEID REQUIREMENT OF
THE HEALTHY MAN ***






                          PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY
                                    IN
                                NUTRITION

                  _WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE MINIMAL
                        PROTEID REQUIREMENT OF THE
                               HEALTHY MAN_

                          AN EXPERIMENTAL STUDY

                                    BY
                          RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN,
                           PH.D., LL.D., SC.D.

      DIRECTOR OF THE SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL OF YALE UNIVERSITY
         AND PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY; MEMBER OF THE
              NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES; PRESIDENT OF THE
                AMERICAN PHYSIOLOGICAL SOCIETY; MEMBER OF
                 THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, ETC.

                                 NEW YORK
                       FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY
                                   1907

                            _Copyright, 1904_,
                      BY FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY

                       Published in November, 1904

                THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U. S. A.




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                               FACING PAGE

  Group of soldiers at work in the Gymnasium                           136

  Side view of Fritz                                                   198

  Back view of Fritz                                                   204

  Front view of Coffman and Steltz                                     212

  Back view of Coffman and Steltz                                      220

  Side view of Zooman and Cohn                                         234

  Back view of Zooman and Cohn                                         240

  Side view of Loewenthal and Morris                                   258

  Group of soldiers exercising in the Gymnasium                        262

  Front view of Sliney                                                 272

  Soldiers exercising in the Gymnasium                                 284

  Soldiers exercising in the Gymnasium                                 296

  Side view of Stapleton                                               328

  Back view of Stapleton                                               366

  Front view of W. L. Anderson and Bellis                              440

  Back view of W. L. Anderson and Bellis                               442




ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF FINANCIAL AID IN MEETING THE EXPENSE OF THE
EXPERIMENTS HEREIN DESCRIBED


The writer has been most generously aided by substantial grants from the
Bache Fund of the National Academy of Sciences, and from the Carnegie
Institution of Washington; also by large donations from Mr. Horace
Fletcher of Venice, and from Mr. John H. Patterson of Dayton, Ohio. In
addition, the War Department of the United States met in large measure
the expense of maintaining at New Haven the Detachment of Volunteers from
the Hospital Corps of the United States Army, detailed here through the
courtesy of Surgeon-General Robert Maitland O’Reilly.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS OF AID IN THE CONDUCT OF THE EXPERIMENTS

The successful carrying out of the experiments in all their details,
especially the chemical work, has been rendered possible by the active
and continuous co-operation of the writer’s colleague, Lafayette B.
Mendel, Ph.D., Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Sheffield
Scientific School.

Efficient aid in the routine chemical and other work of the laboratory in
connection with the experiments has been rendered by Frank P. Underhill,
Ph.D., Arthur L. Dean, Ph.D., Harold C. Bradley, B.A., Robert B. Gibson,
Ph.B., Oliver E. Closson, Ph.B., and Charles S. Leavenworth, Ph.B.

Dr. William G. Anderson, Director of the Yale Gymnasium, with the
co-operation of his assistants, has rendered valuable aid in looking
after the physical development of the men under experiment, in arranging
for frequent strength tests, as well as in prescribing the character
and extent of their work in the Gymnasium. The greater portion of the
training of the soldiers was under the personal supervision of William
H. Callahan, M.D., Medical Assistant at the Gymnasium, while Messrs.
William Chase, Anton Muller, John Stapleton, and H. R. Gladwin, Assistant
Instructors in the Gymnasium, led the drills and looked after the actual
muscular training of the men.

In the study of “Reaction Time” and other matters of psychological
interest the work was under the direction of Charles H. Judd, Ph.D., in
charge of the Yale Psychological Laboratory, aided by Warren M. Steele,
B.A., and Cloyd N. McAllister, Ph.D.

In the morphological study of the blood, etc., Dr. Wallace DeWitt,
Lieutenant in command of the Army detail, rendered valuable aid. Dr.
DeWitt likewise co-operated in all possible ways during his stay in New
Haven to maintain the integrity of the conditions necessarily imposed on
the soldier detail in an experiment of this character.

Further, acknowledgments are due the several non-commissioned officers
of the Hospital Corps for their intelligent co-operation and interest.
Finally, to the men of the Hospital Corps who volunteered for the
experiment, our thanks are due for their cheerful compliance with the
many restrictions placed upon them during their six months’ sojourn in
New Haven, and for the manly way in which they conducted themselves under
conditions not always agreeable.

To the students of the University who volunteered as subjects
of experiment our acknowledgments are due for their intelligent
co-operation, keen interest, and hearty compliance with the conditions
imposed.




PREFACE


There is no subject of greater physiological importance, or of greater
moment for the welfare of the human race, than the subject of nutrition.
How best to maintain the body in a condition of health and strength,
how to establish the highest degree of efficiency, both physical and
mental, with the least expenditure of energy, are questions in nutrition
that every enlightened person should know something of, and yet even
the expert physiologist to-day is in an uncertain frame of mind as to
what constitutes a proper dietary for different conditions of life and
different degrees of activity. We hear on all sides widely divergent
views regarding the needs of the body, as to the extent and character of
the food requirements, contradictory statements as to the relative merits
of animal and vegetable foods; indeed, there is great lack of agreement
regarding many of the fundamental questions that constantly arise in any
consideration of the nutrition of the human body. Especially is this
true regarding the so-called dietary standards, or the food requirements
of the healthy adult. Certain general standards have been more or less
widely adopted, but a careful scrutiny of the conditions under which
the data were collected leads to the conclusion that the standards in
question have a very uncertain value, especially as we see many instances
of people living, apparently in good physical condition, under a _régime_
not at all in harmony with the existing standards.

Especially do we need more definite knowledge of the true physiological
necessities of the body for proteid or albuminous foods, _i. e._, those
forms of foods that we are accustomed to speak of as the essential foods,
since they are absolutely requisite for life. If our ideas regarding
the daily quantities of these foods necessary for the maintenance of
health and strength are exaggerated, then a possible physiological
economy is open to us, with the added possibility that health and vigor
may be directly or indirectly increased. Further, if through years
and generations of habit we have become addicted to the use of undue
quantities of proteid foods, quantities way beyond the physiological
requirements of the body, then we have to consider the possibility that
this excess of daily food may be more or less responsible for many
diseased conditions, which might be obviated by more careful observance
of the true physiological needs of the body.

First, however, we must have more definite information as to what the
real necessities of the body for proteid food are, and this information
can be obtained only by careful scientific experimentation under varying
conditions. This has been the object of the present study, and the
results obtained are now placed before the public with the hope that
they will prove not only of scientific interest and value, but that
they will also serve to arouse an interest in the minds of thoughtful
people in a subject which is surely of primary importance for the
welfare of mankind. That the physical condition of the body exercises
an all-powerful influence upon the mental state, and that a man’s moral
nature even is influenced by his bodily condition are equally certain;
hence, the subject of nutrition, when once it is fully understood and its
precepts obeyed, bids fair to exert a beneficial influence not only upon
bodily conditions, but likewise upon the welfare of mankind in many other
directions.

In presenting the results of the experiments, herein described, the
writer has refrained from entering into lengthy discussions, preferring
to allow the results mainly to speak for themselves. They are certainly
sufficiently convincing and need no superabundance of words to give them
value; indeed, such merit as the book possesses is to be found in the
large number of consecutive results, which admit of no contradiction
and need no argument to enhance their value. The results presented are
scientific facts, and the conclusions they justify are self-evident.




CONTENTS


                                                                      Page

  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS                                                        v

  PREFACE                                                              vii

  INTRODUCTORY                                                           1

                                   I.

                   EXPERIMENTS WITH PROFESSIONAL MEN.

  Chittenden: Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc.                  24

  First Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output,
    amount and character of the daily food                              34

  Second Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.         43

  Mendel: Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc.                      53

  First Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output,
    amount and character of the daily food                              60

  Second Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.         67

  Underhill: Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc.                   79

  First Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output,
    composition of the daily food, etc.                                 87

  Second Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.         93

  Dean: Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc.                        98

  Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output, amount
    and character of the daily food                                    103

  Beers: Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc.                      111

  First Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output,
    amount and character of the daily food                             114

  Second Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.        121

  Summary of Results; True Proteid Requirements                        127

                                   II.

    EXPERIMENTS WITH VOLUNTEERS FROM THE HOSPITAL CORPS OF THE UNITED
                              STATES ARMY.

  Description of the Men                                               134

  Daily Routine of Work                                                135

  Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc., for each of the thirteen
    men under experiment                                               139

  Average Daily Output of Nitrogen                                     199

  Nitrogen Metabolized per kilo of Body-Weight                         201

  Changes in Body-Weight during the Experiment                         202

  First Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output,
    amount and character of the daily food                             203

  Second Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.        223

  Third Nitrogen Balance, with composition of daily food, etc.         242

  Summary regarding Nitrogen Requirement                               254

  Physical Training of the Men—Report by Dr. Anderson of the Yale
    Gymnasium                                                          255

  Body Measurements                                                    261

  Strength or Dynamometer Tests                                        262

  Comparison of the Total Strength of the Men at the beginning and
    end of the Experiment                                              274

  Reaction Time Experiments—Report by Dr. Judd of the Yale
    Psychological Laboratory                                           276

  Character and Composition of the Blood                               283

  General Conclusions                                                  285

  Daily Dietary of the Soldier Detail                                  288

                                  III.

       EXPERIMENTS WITH UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, TRAINED IN ATHLETICS.

  Consumption of Proteid Food by Athletes                              327

  Description of the Men                                               329

  Daily Record of Nitrogen Excretion, etc., for each of the eight
    men under Experiment                                               332

  Average Daily Excretion of Metabolized Nitrogen                      364

  Metabolized Nitrogen per kilo of Body-Weight                         365

  Daily Diet Prescribed                                                366

  Nitrogen Balance, with comparison of income and output, and amount
    and character of the daily food, etc.                              375

  The Physical Condition of the Men                                    434

  Strength or Dynamometer Tests                                        436

  Report by Dr. Anderson of the Yale Gymnasium                         439

  Reaction Time—Report by Dr. Judd of the Yale Psychological
    Laboratory                                                         442

  General Summary; True Physiological Requirements for Proteid Food    454

                                   IV.

        THE SYSTEMIC VALUE OF PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN NUTRITION.

  Diseases due to Perversion of Nutrition                              455

  Waste Products of Proteid Metabolism may be Dangerous to Health      456

  Origin and Significance of Uric Acid                                 458

  Modification of Uric Acid Excretion by diminishing the amount of
    Proteid Food                                                       463

  Tables showing Excretion of Uric Acid by the three groups of men
    under observation; Uric Acid per kilo of Body-Weight, etc.         467

                                   V.

  ECONOMIC AND SOCIOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF THE RESULTS                  471

                                   VI.

  GENERAL CONCLUSIONS                                                  474

                                  VII.

  DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS                                         477




PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN NUTRITION




INTRODUCTORY

    NOTE.—For the benefit of lay readers, _metabolism_, a word
    frequently made use of, may be defined as a term applied to the
    collective chemical changes taking place in living matter. When
    these metabolic changes are constructive, as in the building
    up of tissue protoplasm from the absorbed food material, they
    are termed _anabolic_; when they are destructive, as in the
    breaking down of living matter or in the decomposition of
    the materials stored up in the tissues and organs, they are
    termed _katabolic_. Proteid metabolism, or more exactly proteid
    katabolism, therefore, means the destructive decomposition
    of proteid or albuminous matter in the living body and is
    practically synonymous with nitrogenous metabolism, since the
    entire nitrogen income is mainly supplied by the proteids or
    albuminous matters of the food. The chief carbon income, on
    the other hand, is supplied by fats and carbohydrates, such as
    starches and sugars.


As the result of many years of observation and experiment certain
general conclusions have been arrived at regarding the requisite amounts
of food necessary for the maintenance of health and strength. Certain
dietary standards have been set up which have found more or less general
acceptance in most parts of the civilized world; standards which have
been reinforced and added to by man’s aptitude for self-indulgence. Carl
Voit, of Munich, whose long and successful life as a student of Nutrition
renders his conclusions of great value, considers that an adult man of
average body-weight (70-75 kilos) doing moderate muscular work requires
daily 118 grams of proteid or albuminous food, of which 105 grams should
be absorbable, 56 grams of fat, and 500 grams of carbohydrate, with
a total fuel value of over 3000 large calories, in order to maintain
the body in equilibrium. The Voit standard or daily diet is accepted
more or less generally as representing the needs of the body under
normal conditions of life, and the conclusions arrived at by other
investigators along these same lines have been more or less in accord
with Voit’s figures. In confirmation of this statement the following data
may be quoted:

                              AVERAGE DIETS.

  +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
  |               |Moleschott.                                          |
  |               |      |Ranke.[1]                                     |
  |               |      |      |Forster.                               |
  |               |      |      |      |Hultgren[2] and Landergren.     |
  |               |      |      |      |      |Atwater.                 |
  |               |      |      |      |      |      |Studemund.[3]     |
  |               |      |      |      |      |      |      |Schmidt.[4]|
  |               +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+----+
  |               |grams |grams |grams |grams |grams |grams |grams |    |
  +---------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+----+
  |Proteid        |  130 |  100 |  131 |  134 |  125 |  114 |  105 |    |
  |Carbohydrates  |  550 |  240 |  494 |  523 |  400 |  551 |  541 |    |
  |Fats           |   40 |  100 |   68 |   79 |  125 |   54 |   63 |    |
  |Fuel value     |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |    |
  | (calories)[5] | 3160 | 2324 | 3195 | 3436 | 3315 | 3229 | 3235 |    |
  +---------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+----+

In many of these diets it is to be noted that the proteid requirement is
placed at even a higher figure than Voit’s standard. Similarly, Erisman,
studying the diets of Russian workmen having a free choice of food and
doing moderately hard work, found the daily diet to be composed of 131.8
grams of proteid, 79.7 grams of fat, and 583.8 grams of carbohydrate,
with a total fuel value of 3675 large calories. Further, Hultgren and
Landergren[6] found that Swedish laborers doing hard work had as their
daily diet 189 grams of proteid, 110 grams of fat, and 714 grams of
carbohydrate, with a total fuel value of 4726 large calories. Voit
found that German soldiers on active service consumed daily 145 grams
of proteid, 100 grams of fat, and 500 grams of carbohydrate, with a
total fuel value of 3574 large calories. Lichtenfelt,[7] studying the
nutrition of Italians, states that an Italian laborer doing a moderate
amount of work requires 110.5 grams of proteid and a total fuel value for
the daily food of 2698 calories, while at hard labor he needs 146 grams
of proteid daily, with carbohydrates and fat sufficient to give 3088
large calories. In our own country Atwater,[8] who has made many valuable
observations upon the dietetic habits of different classes of people
and under different conditions of life, has stated that a somewhat more
liberal allowance of proteid would seem desirable, say 125 grams, with a
total fuel value of 3500 large calories for a man doing severe muscular
labor.

In what is perhaps the latest book on alimentation, Armand Gautier,[9]
writing of the French people, states that the ordinary man in that
climate needs daily 110 grams of albuminous food, 68 grams of fat,
and about 423 grams of amylaceous or saccharine food. It is possible,
however, says Gautier, that the quantity of albuminous food can be
reduced, if necessary, to 78 grams per day in case a man is not doing
work and takes in addition at least 50 grams of fat and 485 grams of
carbohydrate food. Where, however, an individual works eight to ten hours
a day, the ration, says Gautier, must be increased to at least 135 grams
of albuminous food, with 85 to 100 grams of fat, and with from 500 to 900
grams of starchy food.

While these figures may be taken as showing quite conclusively the
dietetic standards adopted by mankind, there is no evidence whatever
that they represent the real needs or requirements of the body. We may
even question whether simple observation of the kinds and amounts of
food consumed by different classes of people under different conditions
of life have any very important bearing upon this question. They throw
light upon dietetic habits, it is true, but such observations give no
information as to how far the diets in question serve the real needs of
the body. We may find, for example, that under certain given conditions
of diet the people in question have the appearance of being well
nourished, and that they do their work with apparent ease and comfort;
but might not these same results follow with smaller amounts of food? If
so, there must of necessity be a certain amount of physiological economy
under the more restricted diet, and a consequent ultimate gain to the
body through diminished wear and tear of the bodily machinery.

Indeed, experimental work and observations scattered through the last
few years have suggested the possibility of much lower standards of
diet sufficing to meet the real physiological needs of the body. Thus,
Hirschfeld,[10] in 1887, found in experimenting on himself (24 years of
age and weighing 73 kilos) that it was possible to maintain nitrogen
equilibrium on a diet containing only 5 to 7.5 grams of nitrogen per
day, or 35 to 45 grams of proteid, for a period of ten to fifteen days.
The amount of non-nitrogenous food consumed, however, was fairly large,
especially the amount of butter,—frequently 100 grams a day—the average
fuel value ranging from 3750 to 3916 large calories daily. In 1888
Hirschfeld,[11] again experimenting on himself, maintained nitrogen
equilibrium for several days on 7.5 grams of nitrogen per day, with
fats and carbohydrate sufficient to yield a total fuel value of 3462
large calories as the daily average. The chief criticism of Hirschfeld’s
experiments is that he failed to obtain in all cases definite analytical
data of the food-stuffs employed and failed to determine the nitrogen of
the fæces. Still his results are of value as indicating the possibility
of maintaining nitrogenous equilibrium for a brief time at least on a low
proteid intake.

Kumagawa,[12] studying especially the diet of the Japanese and
experimenting on himself (27 years old and weighing 48 kilos), found
with a purely vegetable diet, containing per day 54.7 grams of proteid,
2.5 grams of fat, and 569.8 grams of carbohydrate, that he showed for a
period of nine days a plus balance of nitrogen, indicating that his body
was laying on about 4 grams of proteid per day. The nitrogen excreted per
urine and fæces amounted to 8.09 grams per day, while the nitrogen in the
daily food amounted to 8.75 grams. It is interesting to observe in these
experiments, as indicating the degree of absorption of the vegetable food
(composed in large measure of rice) that the daily average of nitrogen in
the urine amounted to 6.069 grams and in the fæces 2.029 grams. In other
words, of the 54.7 grams of nitrogen-containing food only 37.8 grams
were absorbed, 12.69 grams passing out with the fæces. The total fuel
value of the absorbed food per day was 2478 large calories. Similarly,
Hirschfeld[13] has called attention to the fact that with many vegetable
foods especially, not more than 75 per cent of the ingested proteid can
be digested and absorbed, thus emphasizing the necessity of paying heed
to the _character_ of the proteid food in considering the nutritive value
of a given diet.

In some experiments reported by C. Voit[14] in 1889, on the diet of
vegetarians, E. Voit and Constantinidi found that nitrogenous equilibrium
was established in one man with about 8 grams of nitrogen, corresponding
to 48.5 grams of proteid as the daily diet, with large amounts of starchy
foods and some fat. Similarly, Nakahama[15] in the same year, studying
the diet (mostly vegetable) and nutritive condition of thirteen German
laborers in Leipzig, found that their daily food contained on an average
85 grams of proteid, but Carl Voit criticising these results states that
the men were of comparatively light body-weight—about 60 kilos—and not
well nourished.

Kellner and Mori,[16] studying the nutrition of a Japanese (weighing
52 kilos and 23 years of age) state that on a purely vegetable diet
containing 11.34 grams of nitrogen, of which only 8.58 grams were
digested, there was a distinct loss of body-weight, with a daily loss to
the body of 1.16 grams of nitrogen. On a mixed diet, however, containing
fish, it was possible to establish nitrogenous equilibrium with a daily
diet containing 17.48 grams of nitrogen, of which 15.27 grams were
digested and utilized. Similarly, Caspari,[17] 29 years old and weighing
66.2 kilos, found that while he could maintain his body in nitrogenous
equilibrium on 13.26 grams of nitrogen per day, he could not accomplish
it on 10.1 grams of nitrogen, though his daily food contained 3200 large
calories.

Other investigators, however, have found no great difficulty in
establishing nitrogenous equilibrium in man with much lower quantities
of proteid food. Thus, Klemperer[18] found in the case of two young men
of 64 and 65.5 kilos body-weight respectively, in an experiment lasting
eight days, that nitrogenous equilibrium was established on 4.38 and
3.58 grams of nitrogen per day, but with a daily diet containing in
addition to the small amount of proteid 264 grams of fat, 470.4 grams of
carbohydrate, and 172 grams of alcohol, with a total fuel value of 5020
large calories.

Peschel,[19] too, has reported experimental results showing that he was
able to establish nitrogenous equilibrium for a brief period with 7
grams of nitrogen daily, 5.31 grams appearing in the urine and 1.58 grams
in the fæces.

Caspari and Glaessner,[20] in a five-days’ experiment with two
vegetarians, found that the wife consumed daily, on an average, 5.33
grams of nitrogen, with fats and carbohydrates to equal 2715 calories,
while the man took in 7.82 grams of nitrogen and 4559 calories. Both
persons laid on nitrogen in spite of the low intake of proteid food.

Siven’s[21] experiments, however, are perhaps worthy of more careful
consideration. Of 60 kilos body-weight and 30½ years of age, his
experiments conducted on himself extended through thirty-two days with
establishment of nitrogenous equilibrium on 6.26 grams of nitrogen.
Moreover, in another experiment he was in nitrogen equilibrium for a day
or two at least on 4.5 grams of nitrogen. In Siven’s experiment, the most
noticeable feature is the added fact that the total intake of food per
day was comparatively low, with a fuel value of only 2444 large calories.
In this connection we may call attention to the recent experiments of
Landergren,[22] who found with four individuals fed on a daily diet
containing only 2.1 to 2.4 grams of nitrogen, but with a large amount
of carbohydrate, some fat and alcohol, that on the fourth day of this
“specific nitrogen hunger” only 3 to 4 grams of nitrogen were metabolized
and appeared in the urine. In other words, a healthy adult man having a
sufficient intake of non-nitrogenous food seemingly need not metabolize
more proteid than suffices to yield 3 to 4 grams of nitrogen per day.

Such data as these, of which many more might be quoted, surely warrant
the question, how far are we justified in assuming the necessity for
the rich proteid diet called for by the Voit standard? Voit, however,
with many other physiologists would apparently object to any diminution
of the daily 118 grams of proteid for the moderate worker, on the
ground that an abundance of proteid in the food is a necessity for
the maintenance of physical vigor and muscular activity. This view is
certainly reinforced by the customs and habits of mankind; but we may
well query whether our dietetic habits will bear criticism, and in the
light of modern scientific inquiry we may even express doubt as to
whether a rich proteid diet adds anything to our muscular energy or
bodily strength.

How far can our natural instinct be trusted in the choice of diet? We are
all creatures of habit, and our palates are pleasantly excited by the
rich animal foods with their high content of proteid, and we may well
question whether our dietetic habits are not based more upon the dictates
of our palates than upon scientific reasoning or true physiological
needs. There is a prevalent opinion that to be well nourished the body
must have a large excess of fat deposited throughout the tissues, and
that all bodily ills and weaknesses are to be met and combated by
increased intake of food. There is constant temptation to increase the
daily ration, and there is almost universal belief in the efficacy of
a rich and abundant diet to strengthen the body and to increase bodily
and mental vigor. Is there any justification for these beliefs? None,
apparently, other than that which comes from the customs of generations
of high living.

It is self-evident that the smallest amount of food that will serve to
keep the body in a state of high efficiency is physiologically the most
economical, and hence the best adapted for the needs of the organism. Any
excess over and above what is really needed is not only uneconomical,
but may be directly injurious. This is especially true of the proteid
or albuminous foods. It is, however, quite proper to question whether
a brief experiment of a few days in which nitrogenous equilibrium is
perhaps established at the low level of 4 to 5 grams of nitrogen, the
equivalent of 25 to 35 grams of proteid, is to be accepted as fixing the
daily requirements of the healthy man, offsetting the customs or habits
of a lifetime. Voit himself, however, has clearly emphasized the general
principle that the smallest amount of proteid, with non-nitrogenous food
added, that will suffice to keep the body in a state of continual vigor
is the ideal diet. Proteid decomposition products are a constant menace
to the well-being of the body; any quantity of proteid or albuminous
food beyond the real requirements of the body may prove distinctly
injurious. We see the evil effects of uric acid in gout, but there are
many other nitrogenous waste products of proteid katabolism, which with
excess of proteid food are liable to be unduly conspicuous in the fluids
and tissues of the body, and may do more or less damage prior to their
excretion through the kidneys. Further, it requires no imagination
to understand the constant strain upon the liver and kidneys, to say
nothing of possible influence upon the central and peripheral parts of
the nervous system, by these nitrogenous waste products which the body
ordinarily gets rid of as speedily as possible. They are an ever present
evil, but why increase them unnecessarily? This question brings us back
to the starting-point. What is the minimal proteid requirement for the
healthy man, or rather, how far can we safely and advantageously diminish
our proteid intake below the commonly accepted standards?

The question of safety is a pertinent one. Thus, Munk[23] some years
ago (1893) sounded a warning on this point which was later confirmed by
Rosenheim.[24] Both of these observers reported that in dogs fed for some
time on a low proteid diet, but with an abundance of carbohydrate and
fat, there was after some weeks (6-8) a loss of the power of absorption
from the alimentary tract, dependent not alone upon a changed condition
of the epithelial cells of the intestine, but also upon a diminished
secretion of the digestive juices, loss of body-weight, strength, and
vigor, followed speedily by death. If these results were really due
to the low proteid diet, they suggest a grave danger which must not be
lightly passed by. Jägerroos[25] has likewise observed, experimenting on
dogs, that there was, after some months, a striking disturbance of the
intestines on a low proteid intake, which, however, was eventually traced
to a distinct infection, and probably in no manner connected with the
diminished amount of proteid in the diet. In these various experiments
on dogs carried out by Munk, Rosenheim, and by Jägerroos, there was of
necessity great monotony in the diet, and in Munk’s experiments no fresh
meat at all was fed, but simply dried food. In other words, if the diet
was in any sense responsible for the poor health of the animals, it is
fully as plausible to attribute the results to the abnormal conditions
under which the animals were kept as to any specific effect due to the
low proteid intake. It is very essential that the food of dogs, as of
men, shall fulfil all ordinary hygienic conditions. It must be not only
of sufficient quantity for the true needs of the body, but it should
also have the necessary variety with reasonable degree of digestibility,
and proper volume or bulk. When these qualities are lacking, it is not
strange if deviations from the normal gradually develop. That the low
intake of proteid food could be responsible for the condition existing
in Munk’s and Rosenheim’s experiments is not plausible; a view which is
strongly reinforced by many observations, notably those of Albu[26] on a
woman thirty-seven years old and weighing 37.5 kilos, who had followed a
vegetarian diet for six years, and who while under Albu’s care for two
years consumed only 34 grams of proteid per day, the total fuel value of
the food being only 1400 calories per day. This woman was in nitrogenous
equilibrium on 5.4 grams of nitrogen, and on this diet had freed herself
from the illness to which she had long been subject.

Voit’s[27] vegetarian is described by Voit himself as a man twenty-eight
years old, weighing 57 kilos, well nourished, with well developed
muscles, etc. He had lived on a purely vegetable diet for three years,
and was found to be in nitrogenous equilibrium on 8.2 grams of nitrogen.
No mention is made of any disagreeable effects connected with this low
proteid ration, although persisted in for several years. Jaffa’s[28]
experiments and observations on the fruitarians and nutarians of
California “showed in every case (two women and three children) that
though the diet had a low protein and energy value, the subjects were
apparently in excellent health and had been so during the five to eight
years they had been living in this manner.” In comparing the income and
outgo of nitrogen on a diet composed mainly of nuts and fruits, it was
observed in two subjects that 8 grams of nitrogen were sufficient to
bring about nitrogen equilibrium, while with two other subjects on a like
diet the nitrogen required daily for equilibrium was about 10 grams. The
diet used in these experiments, however, was of necessity more or less
restricted in variety, and was without doubt somewhat monotonous. Jaffa
appears to agree with Caspari that the minimum amount of proteid required
daily varies with the individual, and may even vary with the same
individual at different times. Further, Jaffa, in harmony with Siven,
believes that after the body has suffered a loss of nitrogen, there is
at once an effort to attain nitrogenous equilibrium, and that any gain
of nitrogenous body material is a comparatively slow process. If this is
true, it is obvious that the living substance of the tissue protoplasm
must be _slowly_ formed from the proteid of the diet. This, says Jaffa,
should serve as a warning to anyone contemplating any appreciable
decrease in the proteid of the daily diet.

Another statement made by Jaffa may be quoted in this connection,
since it illustrates the attitude taken by many physiologists on this
question. “Even if it could be proved,” says Jaffa, “by a large number
of experiments that nitrogen equilibrium can be maintained on a small
amount of protein, it would still be a great question whether or not
it would be wise to do so. There must certainly be a constant effort
on the part of the human organism to attain this condition, and with
a low protein supply it might be forced to do so under conditions of
strain. In such a case the bad results might be slow in manifesting
themselves, but might also be serious and lasting. It has also been
suggested that when living at a fairly high protein level the body is
more resistant to disease and other strains than when the protein level
is low.” While these suggestions demand careful consideration, it is
equally evident that there is another side to the question, viz., the
possible danger to the body from the physiological action of the larger
amounts of nitrogenous waste products which result from an excess of
proteid food, and which float about through the system prior to their
excretion. In addition, we must not overlook the great loss of energy to
the body in handling and getting rid of the surplus of unnecessary food
of whatever kind introduced into the alimentary tract, to say nothing of
the danger of intestinal putrefaction and toxæmia when from any cause
the system loses its ability to digest and absorb the excess of food
consumed. Further, the possible strain on the kidneys and other organs
must not be overlooked. Hence we may well query on which side lies the
greater danger. To an unprejudiced observer, one not wedded to old-time
tradition, it would seem as if great effort was being made to sustain
the claims of a high-proteid intake. It is surely well to be careful,
but it is certainly not necessary to magnify imaginary dangers to the
extent of suppressing all efforts toward the establishment of possible
physiological economy.

In a paper read before the Physiological Section of the British Medical
Association in 1901 by Dr. van Someren, claim is made of the existence
of a reflex of deglutition, the proper working of which protects
from the results of malnutrition by preventing the intake of any
excess of food. Thorough mastication and insalivation aid in the more
complete utilization of the food and render possible great economy, so
that body-weight and nitrogen equilibrium are both maintained on an
exceptionally small amount of food. This principle had been worked out
by Mr. Horace Fletcher on himself in an attempt to restore his health to
a normal condition, with such beneficial results that he was speedily
restored to a state of exceptional vigor and well-being. Deliberation in
eating, necessitated by the habit of thorough insalivation, it is claimed
results in the occurrence of satiety on the ingestion of comparatively
small amounts of food, and hence all excess of food is avoided.

In the autumn of 1901, Mr. Fletcher and Dr. van Someren visited the
physiological laboratories of Cambridge University, and as stated by Sir
Michael Foster[29] the matter was more closely inquired into with the
assistance of physiological experts. Observations were carried out on
various individuals, and as stated by Professor Foster “the adoption of
the habit of thorough insalivation of the food was found in a consensus
of opinion to have an immediate and very striking effect upon appetite,
making this more discriminating, and leading to the choice of a simple
dietary, and in particular reducing the craving for flesh food. The
appetite, too, is beyond all question fully satisfied with a dietary
considerably less in amount than with ordinary habits is demanded.”...
“In two individuals who pushed the method to its limits it was found
that complete bodily efficiency was maintained for some weeks upon a
dietary which had a total energy value of less than one-half of that
usually taken, and comprised little more than one-third of the proteid
consumed by the average man.” Finally, says Foster, “it may be doubted if
continued efficiency could be maintained with such low values as these,
and very prolonged observations would be necessary to establish the
facts. But all subjects of the experiments who applied the principles
intelligently agreed in finding a very marked reduction in their needs,
and experienced an increase in their sense of well-being and an increase
in their working powers.”

In the autumn of 1902 and in the early part of 1903, Mr. Fletcher spent
several months with the writer, thereby giving an opportunity for
studying his habits of life. For a period of thirteen days in January
he was under constant observation in the writer’s laboratory, when it
was found that the average daily amount of proteid metabolised was 41.25
grams, his body-weight (75 kilos) remaining practically constant. Later,
a more thorough series of observations was made, involving a careful
analysis of the daily diet, together with analysis of the excreta. For
a period of six days the daily diet averaged 44.9 grams of proteid,
38.0 grams of fat, and 253 grams of carbohydrate, the total fuel value
amounting to only 1606 large calories per day. The daily intake of
nitrogen averaged 7.19 grams, while the daily output through the urine
was 6.30 grams and in the fæces 0.6 gram; _i. e._, a daily intake of 7.19
grams of nitrogen, with a total output of 6.90 grams, showing a daily
gain to the body of 0.29 gram of nitrogen, and this on a diet containing
less than half the proteid required by the Voit standard and having only
half the fuel value of the Voit diet. Further, it was found by careful
and thorough tests made at the Yale Gymnasium that Mr. Fletcher, in
spite of this comparatively low ration was in prime physical condition.
In the words of Dr. Anderson, the Director of the Gymnasium, “the case
is unusual, and I am surprised that Mr. Fletcher can do the work of
trained athletes and not give marked evidences of over-exertion.... Mr.
Fletcher performs this work with greater ease and with fewer noticeable
bad results than any man of his age and condition I have ever worked
with.”[30] It is not our purpose here to discuss how far these results
are due to insalivation, or the more thorough mastication of food.
The main point for us is that we have here a striking illustration of
the establishment of nitrogen equilibrium on a low proteid diet and
great physiological economy as shown by the low fuel value of the food
consumed, coupled with remarkable physical strength and endurance.

With data such as these before us we see the possible importance of a
fuller and more exact knowledge of true dietary standards. We find here
questions suggested, the answers to which are of primary importance in
our understanding of the nutritive processes of the body; greater ease
in the maintenance of health, increased power of resistance to disease
germs, duration of life increased beyond the present average, greater
physiological economy and greater efficiency, increased mental and
physical vigor with less expenditure of energy on the part of the body.
All these questions rise before us in connection with the possibility
of maintaining equilibrium on a lowered intake of food, especially
nitrogenous equilibrium, with a diminished consumption of proteid or
albuminous food. Is it not possible that the accepted dietary standards
are altogether too high?

It is of course understood that there can be no fixed dietary standard
suitable for all people, ages, and conditions of life. Dietary standards
at the best are merely an approximate indication of the amounts of food
needed by the body, but these needs are obviously changeable, varying
with the degree of activity of the body, especially the amount of
physical work performed, to say nothing of differences in body-weight,
sex, etc. Further, it is doubtless true that there is what may be called
a specific coefficient of nutrition characteristic of the individual, a
kind of personal idiosyncrasy which exercises in some degree a modifying
influence upon the character and extent of the changes going on in the
body. Still, with due recognition of the general influence exerted by
these various factors the main question remains, viz., how far the
usually accepted standards of diet are correct; or, in other words, is
there any real scientific ground for the assumption that the average
individual doing an average amount of work requires any such quantity
of proteid, or of total nutrients, as the ordinary dietetic standards
call for? Cannot all the real physiological needs of the body be met
by a greatly reduced proteid intake, with establishment of continued
nitrogenous equilibrium on a far smaller amount of proteid food than the
ordinary dietary standards call for, and with actual gain to the body?

Just here we may emphasize why prominence is given to the establishment
of _nitrogenous_ equilibrium, and why the proteid intake assumes a
greater importance than the daily amounts of fat and carbohydrate
consumed. Fats and carbohydrates when oxidized in the body are ultimately
burned to simple gaseous products, viz., carbonic acid and water. Hence,
these waste products are easily and quickly eliminated and cannot
exercise much deleterious influence even when formed in excess. To be
sure, there is waste of energy in digesting, absorbing, and oxidizing
the fats and carbohydrates when they are taken in excessive amounts.
Once introduced into the alimentary canal they must be digested,
otherwise they will clog the intestine or undergo fermentation, and so
cause trouble. Further, when absorbed they may be transformed into fat
and deposited in the various tissues and organs of the body; a process
desirable up to a certain point, but undesirable when such accumulation
renders the body gross and unwieldy. With proteid foods, on the other
hand, the story is quite different. These substances, when oxidized,
yield a row of crystalline nitrogenous products which ultimately pass out
of the body through the kidneys. Prior to their excretion, however, these
products—frequently spoken of as toxins—float about through the body and
may exercise more or less of a deleterious influence upon the system, or,
being temporarily deposited, may exert some specific or local influence
that calls for their speedy removal. Hence, the importance of restricting
the production of these bodies to the minimal amount, owing to their
possible physiological effect and the part they are liable to play in
the causation of many diseased conditions. Further, the elimination of
excessive amounts of these crystalline nitrogenous bodies through the
kidneys places upon these organs an unnecessary burden which is liable
to endanger their integrity and possibly result in serious injury, to say
nothing of an early impairment of function.

       *       *       *       *       *

The present experiments were undertaken to throw light upon this broad
question of a possible physiological economy in nutrition, and with
special reference to the minimal proteid requirement of the healthy man
under ordinary conditions of life. The writer as a student of physiology
has always maintained that man is disposed to eat far more than the
needs of the body require, but his active interest in this problem
was aroused especially by his observations of Mr. Fletcher and the
marked physiological economy the latter was able to practice, not only
without detriment, but apparently with great gain to the body as regards
strength, vigor, and endurance, coupled with an apparent resistance to
disease. While Mr. Fletcher and Dr. Van Someren would doubtless emphasize
the importance of insalivation as a means of controlling the appetite and
thereby regulating the consumption of food in harmony with the real needs
of the body, it is of primary importance for the physiologist and for
mankind to know definitely how far it is possible to reduce the intake of
food with perfect safety and without loss of that strength, mental and
physical, vigor, and endurance which are characteristic of good health.
Further, it is equally plain that if there is possible gain to the body
from a practice of physiological economy in diet, we should know how far
this can be accomplished by simple restriction in the amount of food
without complicating the problem by other factors.

In planning the conduct of this series of experiments the writer
has clearly recognized that, while it may be possible, as previous
experiments have shown, to maintain body equilibrium and nitrogen
equilibrium on a low proteid diet for a brief period, this fact does not,
as Munk has previously pointed out, by any means establish the view that
such a diet will prove efficient in maintaining equilibrium for a long
period, or that bodily strength and vigor can be kept up and the proper
resistance to disease secured. Hence, it seemed necessary to so arrange
the experiments that they should continue not for a few days or weeks
merely, but through months and years. Further, it is very questionable
whether the restricted diet (restricted in variety) frequently made use
of for convenience in ordinary metabolism experiments is well adapted for
bringing out the best results. Hence, it was decided to avoid so far as
possible any monotony of diet, giving due recognition to the psychical
influences liable to affect secretion, digestion, etc., so admirably
worked out by Pawlow in his classical experiments on these subjects;
influences which are unquestionably of great importance in controlling
and modifying, in some measure at least, the nutritive changes in the
body. Again, it is evident that to have experiments of this character
broadly useful, they must be tried upon a large number of people and
under different conditions of life, in order to avoid so far as possible
the influence of personal idiosyncrasy and thereby escape misleading
conclusions.

The experiments have been conducted with three distinct types or classes
of individuals:

1st. A group of five men of varying ages, connected with the University
as professors and instructors; men who while leading active lives
have not engaged in very active muscular work. They were selected as
representatives of the mental worker rather than the physical worker,
although several of them in the performance of their daily duties had to
be on their feet in the laboratory a good portion of the day.

2d. A detail of thirteen men, volunteers from the Hospital Corps of
the United States Army and representatives of the moderate worker; men
who for a period of six months took each week day a vigorous amount of
systematic exercise in the gymnasium, in addition to the routine work
connected with their daily life as members of the United States Hospital
Corps. These men were of different nationalities, ages, and temperaments.

3d. A group of eight young men, students in the University, all
thoroughly trained athletes, and some of them with exceptional records in
athletic events.




I. EXPERIMENTS WITH PROFESSIONAL MEN.


Before proceeding with a detailed account of the experimental work, it
may be well again to emphasize that what is especially desired is to
ascertain how far, if any, the intake of proteid food can be diminished
without detriment to the body, _i. e._, with maintenance of nitrogen
and body equilibrium and without impairment of bodily and mental vigor.
Further, if a lower proteid standard than that generally adopted can be
established, it is desirable to ascertain whether it can be maintained
indefinitely, or for a long period of time, without loss of strength
and vigor. Obviously, it is of primary importance that we should know
quite definitely what the minimal proteid requirement of the healthy man
per kilo of body-weight really is, and the experimental work about to
be detailed has aimed especially to determine whether it is possible to
materially lower the amount of daily proteid food, without detriment to
the bodily health and with maintenance of physical and mental vigor.

The writer, fully impressed with his responsibility in the conduct of an
experiment of this kind, began with himself in November, 1902. At that
time he weighed 65 kilos, was nearly 47 years of age, and accustomed
to eating daily an amount of food approximately equal to the so-called
dietary standards. Recognizing that the habits of a lifetime should not
be too suddenly changed, a gradual reduction was made in the amount of
proteid or albuminous food taken each day. In the writer’s case, this
resulted in the course of a month or two in the complete abolition of
breakfast, except for a small cup of coffee. A light lunch was taken at
1.30 P. M., followed by a heavier dinner at 6.30 P. M. Occasionally,
however, the heartier meal was taken at noontime, as the appetite
suggested. It should be added that the total intake of food was gradually
diminished, as well as the proteid constituents. There was no change,
however, to a vegetable diet, but a simple introduction of physiological
economy. Still, there was and is now a distinct tendency toward the
exclusion of meat in some measure, the appetite not calling for this
form of food in the same degree as formerly. At first, this change to a
smaller amount of food daily was attended with some discomfort, but this
soon passed away, and the writer’s interest in the subject was augmented
by the discovery that he was unquestionably in improved physical
condition. A rheumatic trouble in the knee joint, which had persisted
for a year and a half and which only partially responded to treatment,
entirely disappeared (and has never recurred since). Minor troubles, such
as “sick headaches” and bilious attacks, no longer appeared periodically
as before. There was greater appreciation of such food as was eaten; a
keener appetite and a more acute taste seemed to be developed, with a
more thorough liking for simple foods. By June, 1903, the body-weight had
fallen to 58 kilos.

During the summer the same simple diet was persisted in—a small cup of
coffee for breakfast, a fairly substantial dinner at midday and a light
supper at night. Two months were spent in Maine at an inland fishing
resort, and during a part of this time a guide was dispensed with and
the boat rowed by the writer frequently six to ten miles in a forenoon,
sometimes against head winds (without breakfast), and with much greater
freedom from fatigue and muscular soreness than in previous years on a
fuller dietary. The test of endurance and fitness for physical work which
the writer thus carried out “on an empty stomach” tended to strengthen
the opinion that it is a mistake to assume the necessity for a hearty
meal because heavy work is about to be done. It is certainly far more
rational from a physiological standpoint to leave the hearty meal until
the day’s work is accomplished. We seemingly forget that the energy
of muscular contraction comes not from the food-stuffs present at the
time in the stomach and intestinal tract, but rather from the absorbed
material stored up in the muscles and which was digested and absorbed a
day or two before. Further, it is to be remembered that the very process
of digestion draws to the gastro-intestinal tract a large supply of
blood, and that a large amount of energy is needed for the processes
of secretion, digestion, absorption, and peristalsis, which are of
necessity incited by the presence of food in the stomach and intestine,
thereby actually diminishing the amount of energy available at the place
where it is most needed. Why, then, draw upon the resources of the body
just at a time, or slightly prior to the time, when the work we desire
to perform, either muscular or mental, calls for a copious blood supply
in muscle or brain, and when all available energy is needed for the task
that is to be accomplished?

We are too wont to compare the working body with a machine, the boiler,
engine, etc., overlooking the fact that the animal mechanism differs
from the machine in at least one important respect. When we desire
to set machinery in operation we must get up steam, and so a fire is
started under the boiler and steam is generated in proportion as fuel
is burned. The source of the energy made use of in moving the machinery
is the extraneous combustible material introduced into the fire-box,
but the energy of muscular contraction, for example, comes not from
the oxidizable food material in the stomach, but from the material of
the muscle itself. In other words, in the animal body it is a part of
the tissue framework, or material that is closely incorporated with
the framework, that is burned up, and the ability to endure continued
muscular strain depends upon the nutritive condition of the muscles
involved, and not upon the amount of food contained in, or introduced
into, the stomach. All physiologists will, I think, acknowledge the
soundness of this reasoning, but how few of us apply the principle in
practice. It is perfectly logical to begin the work of the day with a
comparatively empty stomach,—after we have once freed ourselves from the
habit of a hearty breakfast,—and in the writer’s experience both mental
and physical work have become the easier from this change of habit. The
muscle and the brain are given opportunity to repair the waste they have
undergone, by the taking of food at times when the digestive processes
will not draw upon the energy that in activity is needed elsewhere.

Further, it is easy to understand why on a restricted diet, especially
of proteid foods, there should be a diminished sense of fatigue in
connection with vigorous or continued muscular work, and why at the
same time there should be an increased power of endurance, with actual
increase of strength. With a diminished intake of proteid food there is
a decreased formation of crystalline nitrogenous waste products, such as
uric acid and the purin bases, to say nothing of other bodies less fully
known, which circulating through the system are undoubtedly responsible,
in part at least, for what we term fatigue. We need not consider here
whether the sense of fatigue is due to an action of these substances upon
the muscles themselves, upon the motor nerves or their end-plates, or
upon the central nervous system; it is enough for the present purpose to
emphasize the probable results of their presence in undue amount. Lastly,
we may emphasize what is pretty clearly evident to-day, viz., that the
energy of muscular contraction comes preferably from the oxidation, not
of the nitrogenous or proteid constituents of the muscles, but of the
non-nitrogenous components of the tissue; another reason why excess
of proteid food may be advantageously avoided. Moreover, proteid food
stimulates body metabolism in general, and hence undue amounts of proteid
in the diet augment unnecessarily the metabolism or combustion of the
non-nitrogenous material of the muscle, thereby destroying what would
otherwise be preserved as a source of energy in muscular contraction,
when the muscles are called upon for the performance of their daily
functions.

On the writer’s return to New Haven in the fall of 1903, he was surprised
to find that his body-weight was practically the same as early in July.
In the period between November, 1902, and July, 1903, the body had lost
8 kilos under the gradual change of diet, but from July to October,
1903, the weight had apparently remained stationary, from which it might
fairly be assumed that the body had finally adjusted itself to the new
conditions.

What now was the condition of the body as regards nitrogen metabolism? To
answer this question the entire twenty-four hours’ urine was collected
practically every day, from October 13, 1903, to June 28, 1904,
representing a period of nearly nine months. This daily output through
the kidneys was analyzed each day with special reference to the total
nitrogen,[31] as a measure of the amount of proteid material metabolized.
Total volume of the urine, specific gravity, uric acid, phosphoric acid,
indican, and other points were also considered, the more important
results being indicated in the following tables.


CHITTENDEN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.   13 |  57.5 |  380  | 1027 |    5.46   |    0.376  |    1.10   |
  |        14 |       |  550  | 1027 |    6.51   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  400  | 1022 |    5.40   |    0.352  |    1.02   |
  |        16 |       |  500  | 1027 |    6.45   |           |           |
  |        17 |  57.4 |  477  | 1030 |    6.40   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  670  | 1027 |    7.20   |    0.406  |    1.10   |
  |        19 |       |  435  | 1027 |    6.13   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  465  | 1028 |    6.83   |    0.476  |    0.92   |
  |        21 |       |  450  | 1029 |    6.51   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  465  | 1027 |    6.14   |    0.370  |    0.96   |
  |        27 |       |  445  | 1023 |    5.52   |    0.385  |    0.79   |
  |        28 |       |  405  | 1027 |    5.08   |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |       |  390  | 1029 |    5.68   |    0.372  |    0.42   |
  |         2 |       |  530  | 1027 |    6.33   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  470  | 1027 |    5.92   |    0.412  |    0.75   |
  |         4 |       |  425  | 1028 |    5.88   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  375  | 1029 |    4.93   |    0.330  |    0.79   |
  |         7 |       |  545  | 1028 |    6.57   |           |           |
  |         8 |  57.4 |  456  | 1029 |    5.82   |    0.371  |    0.65   |
  |         9 |       |  415  | 1027 |    5.43   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  615  | 1025 |    6.45   |    0.430  |    1.17   |
  |        11 |       |  410  | 1028 |    4.80   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  580  | 1026 |    5.64   |    0.371  |    1.02   |
  |        13 |       |  584  | 1027 |    5.82   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  505  | 1029 |    6.36   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  405  | 1028 |    5.80   |    0.384  |    0.73   |
  |        16 |       |  425  | 1027 |    5.43   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  455  | 1028 |    5.27   |    0.367  |    0.76   |
  |        18 |       |  575  | 1027 |    6.62   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  447  | 1027 |    5.34   |    0.389  |    0.77   |
  |        20 |       |  480  | 1029 |    6.00   |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.5 |  400  | 1029 |    5.71   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  382  | 1029 |    5.52   |    0.379  |    0.97   |
  |        23 |  57.7 |  350  | 1029 |    5.33   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  422  | 1029 |    6.43   |    0.400  |           |
  |        25 |       |  435  | 1030 |    5.79   |           |           |
  |        26 |  57.6 |  445  | 1030 |    6.09   |    0.430  |    1.01   |
  |        27 |       |  430  | 1030 |    6.17   |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  454  | 1027 |    5.66   |    0.420  |    0.93   |
  |        30 |       |  455  | 1023 |    5.56   |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |       |  420  | 1028 |    5.31   |    0.450  |    0.92   |
  |         2 |       |  465  | 1027 |    6.17   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  430  | 1027 |    5.34   |    0.350  |    0.82   |
  |         4 |       |  365  | 1029 |    4.77   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  430  | 1030 |    5.83   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  515  | 1028 |    5.90   |    0.393  |    1.08   |
  |         7 |       |  400  | 1028 |    5.57   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  390  | 1028 |    4.99   |    0.328  |    1.02   |
  |         9 |       |  405  | 1030 |    5.17   |           |           |
  |        10 |  57.6 |  370  | 1026 |    4.64   |    0.308  |    0.90   |
  |        11 |       |  327  | 1030 |    4.65   |    0.325  |    1.11   |
  |        12 |       |  390  | 1027 |    5.16   |    0.346  |    1.01   |
  |        13 |       |  429  | 1029 |    5.66   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  360  | 1030 |    4.84   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  295  | 1029 |    4.32   |    0.291  |    0.82   |
  |        16 |       |  445  | 1029 |    6.27   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  390  | 1032 |    5.59   |    0.358  |    0.73   |
  |        18 |       |  420  | 1030 |    5.62   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  415  | 1027 |    5.03   |           |           |
  |        20 |  57.5 |  390  | 1030 |    5.71   |    0.402  |    0.78   |
  |        21 |       |  360  | 1023 |    4.25   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  360  | 1030 |    5.13   |    0.342  |    0.79   |
  |        23 |       |  400  | 1031 |    5.08   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  435  | 1030 |    6.44   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  450  | 1029 |    5.13   |    0.329  |    0.77   |
  |        26 |       |  465  |      |    5.55   |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  470  |      |    5.53   |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  535  |      |    8.18   |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  535  |      |    7.67   |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  656  |      |    9.68   |           |           |
  |        31 |  57.6 |  490  | 1031 |    7.61   |    0.455  |    0.92   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |       |  415  | 1030 |    6.41   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  490  | 1031 |    6.56   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  460  | 1030 |    5.91   |    0.319  |    0.79   |
  |         4 |  58.1 |  430  | 1030 |    5.72   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  570  | 1028 |    6.36   |    0.402  |           |
  |         6 |       |  445  | 1028 |    5.68   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  510  | 1028 |    5.91   |    0.367  |    0.99   |
  |         8 |       |  420  | 1028 |    5.37   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  650  | 1027 |    7.29   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  635  | 1024 |    6.32   |    0.414  |    0.99   |
  |        11 |       |  410  | 1028 |    4.87   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  450  | 1027 |    6.48   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  410  | 1027 |    5.34   |    0.435  |           |
  |        14 |       |  532  | 1028 |    6.22   |    0.502  |           |
  |        15 |       |  530  | 1028 |    5.98   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  515  | 1030 |    6.18   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  537  | 1030 |    6.73   |    0.429  |           |
  |        18 |  57.8 |  395  | 1029 |    5.09   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  450  | 1030 |    5.72   |    0.427  |           |
  |        20 |       |  420  | 1026 |    4.76   |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  410  | 1029 |    5.26   |    0.401  |           |
  |        22 |       |  485  | 1029 |    5.41   |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  440  | 1031 |    5.07   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  485  | 1029 |    5.61   |    0.407  |           |
  |        25 |       |  545  | 1027 |    6.18   |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  485  | 1028 |    6.69   |    0.440  |           |
  |        27 |       |  435  | 1028 |    5.64   |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  490  | 1029 |    6.18   |    0.423  |           |
  |        29 |       |  450  | 1029 |    5.68   |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  475  |      |    5.59   |    0.376  |           |
  |        31 |       |  490  |      |    6.61   |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       |  490  | 1030 |    6.47   |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.5 |  400  | 1031 |    6.12   |    0.219  |           |
  |         3 |       |  415  | 1030 |    5.85   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  545  | 1027 |    6.77   |    0.327  |           |
  |         5 |       |  450  | 1030 |    5.64   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  485  | 1027 |    6.01   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  450  | 1026 |    5.62   |           |           |
  |         8 |  57.4 |  415  | 1027 |    5.88   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  540  | 1026 |    6.67   |    0.449  |           |
  |        10 |       |  410  | 1029 |    5.61   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  600  | 1025 |    6.70   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  430  | 1029 |    5.57   |    0.437  |           |
  |        13 |       |  415  | 1028 |    5.50   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  480  | 1028 |    6.42   |    0.497  |           |
  |        15 |       |  395  | 1030 |    4.95   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  500  | 1029 |    5.97   |    0.364  |           |
  |        17 |       |  450  | 1030 |    5.62   |           |           |
  |        18 |  57.3 |  430  | 1030 |    5.86   |    0.279  |           |
  |        19 |       |  450  | 1029 |    6.21   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  455  | 1027 |    5.46   |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  500  | 1027 |    6.16   |    0.424  |           |
  |        22 |       |  445  | 1028 |    5.15   |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  455  | 1027 |    5.63   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  420  | 1028 |    6.27   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  560  | 1027 |    6.28   |    0.403  |           |
  |        26 |       |  630  | 1026 |    6.27   |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  570  | 1026 |    6.87   |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  515  | 1028 |    6.27   |    0.496  |           |
  |        29 |       |  450  | 1030 |    5.43   |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       |  450  | 1027 |    6.02   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  445  | 1029 |    5.15   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  590  | 1028 |    6.30   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  415  | 1029 |    5.40   |           |           |
  |         5 |  57.5 |  425  | 1027 |    5.48   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  548  | 1025 |    5.92   |    0.370  |           |
  |         7 |       |  400  | 1029 |    4.68   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  530  | 1028 |    5.77   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  560  | 1028 |    5.84   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  560  | 1028 |    5.64   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  495  | 1028 |    5.79   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  515  | 1021 |    6.80   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  520  | 1029 |    6.43   |    0.370  |           |
  |        14 |       |  600  | 1025 |    6.12   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  520  | 1026 |    5.87   |           |           |
  |        16 |  57.5 |  525  | 1026 |    5.13   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  490  | 1026 |    4.97   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  450  | 1027 |    5.08   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  500  | 1024 |    5.85   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  500  | 1022 |    5.91   |⎫          |           |
  |        21 |  57.4 |  430  | 1025 |    5.52   |⎪          |           |
  |        22 |       |  458  | 1033 |    5.94   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  57.2 |  400  | 1029 |    5.61   |⎬   0.321  |    1.20   |
  |        24 |  57.3 |  365  | 1029 |    4.31   |⎪   daily  |    daily  |
  |        25 |       |  420  | 1029 |    5.39   |⎭  average |   average |
  |        26 |  57.5 |  435  | 1027 |    5.85   |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  595  | 1026 |    6.33   |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  545  | 1027 |    6.00   |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  435  | 1028 |    4.86   |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  575  | 1026 |    6.26   |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  495  | 1026 |    5.26   |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       |  570  | 1026 |    6.33   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  440  | 1030 |    6.07   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  487  | 1026 |    6.11   |    0.375  |           |
  |         4 |       |  410  | 1028 |    5.78   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  390  | 1028 |    5.38   |           |           |
  |         6 |  56.8 |  490  | 1028 |    5.56   |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.5 |  530  | 1027 |    5.69   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  440  | 1029 |    5.41   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  465  | 1019 |    6.05   |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.8 |  500  | 1029 |    6.00   |    0.382  |           |
  |        11 |       |  500  | 1028 |    6.18   |           |           |
  |        12 |  56.4 |  475  | 1029 |    5.55   |    0.366  |    0.870  |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average for  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  six months       |  466  | 1027 |    5.82   |    0.386  |    0.899  |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |        13 |       |  545  | 1029 |    6.77   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  440  | 1027 |    5.89   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  500  | 1028 |    5.91   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  485  | 1028 |    5.49   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  405  | 1029 |    5.99   |    0.393  |           |
  |        18 |       |  465  | 1029 |    6.11   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  510  | 1030 |    7.68   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  430  | 1031 |    6.99   |           |           |
  |        21 |  56.6 |  615  | 1029 |    8.67   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  320  | 1030 |    5.03   |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.1 |  355  | 1032 |    5.72   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  455  | 1027 |    5.97   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  380  | 1027 |    4.93   |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  450  | 1028 |    4.97   |    0.366  |           |
  |        27 |       |  600  | 1025 |    6.62   |    0.553  |           |
  |        28 |  56.9 |  385  | 1029 |    5.66   |    0.507  |           |
  |        29 |       |  415  | 1029 |    5.28   |    0.488  |           |
  |        30 |  56.9 |  462  | 1029 |    5.59   |    0.413  |           |
  |   May   1 |       |  486  | 1027 |    5.54   |    0.409  |           |
  |         2 |       |  405  | 1028 |    4.11   |    0.320  |           |
  |         3 |  57.1 |  505  | 1027 |    5.48   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  456  | 1026 |    5.27   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  380  | 1026 |    4.88   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  530  | 1027 |    6.30   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  470  | 1024 |    5.44   |           |           |
  |         8 |  57.6 |  460  | 1027 |    5.07   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  460  | 1026 |    4.28   |           |           |
  |        10 |  57.4 |  493  | 1028 |    5.26   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  415  | 1029 |    4.61   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  530  | 1029 |    5.98   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  415  | 1031 |    4.72   |           |           |
  |        14 |  57.2 |  405  | 1031 |    4.98   |    0.468  |           |
  |        15 |       |  500  | 1029 |    5.31   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  505  | 1027 |    5.03   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  650  | 1020 |    5.69   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  550  | 1027 |    5.81   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  560  | 1027 |    6.05   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  615  | 1027 |    6.64   |           |           |
  |        21 |  56.9 |  380  | 1032 |    5.20   |    0.421  |           |
  |        22 |       |  475  | 1028 |    5.73   |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  378  | 1028 |    4.60   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  383  | 1029 |    4.48   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  535  | 1025 |    5.14   |           |           |
  |        26 |  56.9 |  355  | 1028 |    4.37   |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  435  | 1026 |    4.93   |           |           |
  |        28 |  57.5 |  555  | 1028 |    5.99   |    0.397  |           |
  |        29 |  57.7 |  565  | 1027 |    6.27   |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  700  | 1020 |    5.50   |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  500  | 1025 |    5.13   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       |  630  | 1023 |    5.41   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  510  | 1020 |    4.16   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  530  | 1023 |    5.25   |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.6 |  390  | 1029 |    5.25   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  400  | 1025 |    4.87   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  430  | 1027 |    5.16   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  480  | 1028 |    5.15   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  410  | 1027 |    4.95   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  420  | 1026 |    4.51   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  395  | 1026 |    4.27   |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.5 |  510  | 1030 |    5.91   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  530  | 1027 |    5.95   |           |           |
  |        13 |  57.6 |  485  | 1027 |    5.35   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  470  | 1030 |    5.16   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  560  | 1024 |    4.91   |           |           |
  |        16 |  57.6 |  390  | 1029 |    5.26   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  408  | 1027 |    5.17   |           |           |
  |        18 |  57.9 |  412  | 1030 |    5.07   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  458  | 1025 |    5.44   |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.0 |  380  | 1026 |    4.49   |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  480  | 1023 |    5.04   |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.8 |  580  | 1025 |    6.16   |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.9 |  535  | 1025 |    5.26   |⎫          |           |
  |        24 |  57.6 |  570  | 1024 |    5.30   |⎪          |           |
  |        25 |       |  410  | 1027 |    4.43   |⎬   0.397  |    1.08   |
  |        26 |  57.4 |  400  | 1027 |    4.66   |⎪   daily  |    daily  |
  |        27 |  57.4 |  405  | 1027 |    4.98   |⎭  average |   average |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 13, 1903    |  468  | 1027 |    5.69   |    0.392  |    0.904  |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  27               |       |      |    5.40   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  | June   28 |  57.5 |  595  | 1026 |    6.75   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

Scrutiny of the tables shows that during this period of nine months the
body-weight was practically constant. The daily volume of urine was
exceptionally small and fairly regular in amount, the average daily
output for the nine months being 468 c.c. It is a noticeable fact that
with a diminished intake of proteid food there is far less thirst, and
consequently a greatly decreased demand for water or other fluids.
Further, in view of the small nitrogenous waste there is no need on the
part of the body for any large amount of fluid to flush out the kidneys.
The writer has not had a turbid urine during the nine months’ period.
With heavier eating of nitrogenous foods, an abundant water supply
is a necessity to prevent the kidneys from becoming clogged, thereby
explaining the frequent beneficial results of the copious libations of
mineral waters, spring waters, etc., frequently called for after, or
with, heavy eating. Obviously, a small volume of urine each day means
so much less wear and tear of the delicate mechanism of the kidneys.
Somewhat noticeable, in a general way, is the apparent relationship
between the volume of the urine and the nitrogen output, in harmony with
the well-known diuretic action of urea. The specific gravity of the urine
shows variation only within narrow limits, the daily average for the nine
months being 1027.

Uric acid is noticeably small in quantity, the average daily output for
the nine months’ period, based upon the determinations made, being only
0.392 gram.

Chief interest, however, centres around the figures for total nitrogen,
since these figures give for each day the extent of the proteid
metabolism; _i. e._, the amount of proteid material broken down in
the body each day in connection with the wear and tear of the bodily
machinery. To fully grasp the significance of these data, it should
be remembered that the prevalent dietary standards are based upon the
assumption that the average adult must metabolize each day at least 16
grams of nitrogen. Indeed, that is what actual analysis of the urine
indicates in most cases. If now we look carefully through the figures
shown in the above tables, covering a period from October 13, 1903,
to June 28, 1904, it is seen that the daily nitrogen excretion is far
different from 16 grams. Indeed, the figures for nitrogen are exceedingly
low, and, moreover, they vary little from day to day. The average daily
output of nitrogen through the urine for the entire period of nearly nine
months is only 5.699 grams.

For the first six months the average daily excretion amounted to 5.82
grams of nitrogen, while from April 12 to June 28 the average daily
excretion of nitrogen was 5.40 grams, thus showing a slight tendency
downward. On the whole, however, there is shown a somewhat remarkable
uniformity in the daily excretion. Thus, the average daily excretion
for the month of November was 5.79 grams of nitrogen, for the month of
March 5.66 grams, thus showing very little difference in the output of
nitrogen through the kidneys in these two periods, three months apart.
In other words, the extent of proteid katabolism was essentially the
same throughout the entire nine months, implying that the amount of
proteid food eaten must have been fairly constant, and that the body had
adapted itself to this new level of nutrition from which there was no
tendency to deviate. There was no weighing out of food and no attempt
to follow any specified diet. The greatest possible variety of simple
foods was indulged in, and the dictates of the appetite were followed
with the single precaution that excess was avoided. In other words, it
was temperance in diet, and not prohibition. Yet it is equally true,
in the writer’s case at least, that the appetite itself unconsciously
served as a regulator, since there was, as a rule, no necessity to hold
the appetite in check to avoid excess. Doubtless, the writer’s knowledge
of the general composition of food-stuffs has had some influence in
the choice of foods, and thereby aided in bringing about this somewhat
remarkable uniformity in the daily output of nitrogen for such a long
period of time on an unrestricted diet.

What now do the nitrogen figures show regarding the amount of proteid
material metabolized each day? It will be remembered that the Voit
standard calls for 118 grams of proteid or albuminous food daily, of
which 105 grams should be absorbable, in order to maintain the body in
a condition of nitrogen equilibrium, and in a state of physical vigor
and general tone. This would mean a daily excretion through the urine
of at least 16 grams of nitrogen. The daily output of nitrogen in the
case under discussion, however, was 5.699 grams for a period of nearly
nine months. This amount of nitrogen excreted through the urine means
only 35.6 grams of proteid metabolized, or about one-third the amount
called for by the Voit standard, or the standards generally adopted as
expressing man’s daily requirement of proteid food. But was the body in
nitrogenous equilibrium on this small amount of proteid food? Naturally,
this question might be answered in the affirmative, on the basis of
the constancy in body-weight for the period from October to June, but
more decisive proof is needed. The question was therefore settled by a
careful comparison of the income and output, in which all the food eaten
was carefully weighed and analyzed, while the nitrogen of the urine and
fæces was determined with equal accuracy. The first experiment of this
character to be quoted is for the week commencing March 20, a period of
six days.

Following are the diets made use of each day, the weights of the various
food-stuffs being given in grams. Likewise is shown the nitrogen content
of the several food-stuffs for each day, and also a comparison of the
nitrogen intake with the output of nitrogen through the urine:


_Sunday, March 20, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—One cup coffee, _i. e._, coffee 137.5 grams, cream
30.5 grams, sugar 9 grams.

Dinner, 1.30 P. M.—Stewed chicken 50 grams, mashed potato 131 grams,
biscuit 49 grams, butter 13 grams, chocolate pudding 106 grams, one small
cup coffee, _i. e._, coffee 64 grams, sugar 12 grams, cheese crackers 29
grams.

Supper, 6.30 P. M.—Lettuce sandwiches 56 grams, biscuit 35 grams, butter
6 grams, one cup tea, _i. e._, tea 170 grams, sugar 7 grams, sponge cake
47 grams, sliced oranges 82 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            64 + 137 = 201.5   ×     0.042    =    0.085 gram.
  Cream                         30.5   ×     0.41     =    0.125
  Sugar           12 + 9 + 7 =  28.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Chicken                       50.0   ×     4.70     =    2.350
  Mashed potato                131.0   ×     0.30     =    0.393
  Biscuit            35 + 49 =  84.0   ×     1.49     =    1.251
  Butter              13 + 6 =  19.0   ×     0.10     =    0.019
  Chocolate pudding            106.0   ×     0.86     =    0.911
  Cheese crackers               29.0   ×     2.54     =    0.737
  Lettuce sandwich              56.0   ×     0.92     =    0.515
  Tea                          170.0   ×     0.048    =    0.082
  Sponge cake                   47.0   ×     0.98     =    0.461
  Sliced orange                 82.0   ×     0.073    =    0.060
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.989 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.910

  Fuel value of the food      1708 calories.[32]


_Monday, March 21, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—Coffee 119 grams, cream 30 grams, sugar 9 grams.

Lunch, 1.30 P. M.—One shredded wheat biscuit 31 grams, cream 116 grams,
wheat gems 33 grams, butter 7 grams, tea 185 grams, sugar 10 grams, cream
cake 53 grams.

Dinner, 6.30 P. M.—Pea soup 114 grams, lamb chop 24 grams, boiled sweet
potato 47 grams, wheat gems 76 grams, butter 13 grams, cream cake 52
grams, coffee 61 grams, sugar 10 grams, cheese crackers 16 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            119 + 61 = 180     ×     0.042    =    0.076 gram.
  Cream             30 + 116 = 146     ×     0.41     =    0.600
  Sugar          9 + 10 + 10 =  29     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Shredded wheat biscuit        31     ×     1.62     =    0.502
  Tea                          185     ×     0.048    =    0.089
  Wheat gems         33 + 76 = 109     ×     1.46     =    1.591
  Butter              7 + 13 =  20     ×     0.10     =    0.020
  Cream cake         53 + 52 = 105     ×     0.97     =    1.018
  Pea soup                     114     ×     1.00     =    1.140
  Lamb chop                     24     ×     4.54     =    1.090
  Sweet potato                  47     ×     0.18     =    0.085
  Cheese crackers               16     ×     2.54     =    0.410
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.621 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.520

  Fuel value of the food      1713 calories.


_Tuesday, March 22, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—Coffee 97 grams, cream 26 grams, sugar 9 grams.

Lunch, 1.30 P. M.—Baked potato 83 grams, fried sausage 36 grams, soda
biscuit 39 grams, butter 12 grams, tea 137 grams, sugar 10 grams, cream
meringue 59 grams.

Dinner, 6.30 P. M.—Chicken broth 146 grams, bread 52 grams, butter 15
grams, creamed potato 76 grams, custard 76 grams, coffee 50 grams, sugar
11 grams, cheese crackers 10 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee             97 + 50 = 147     ×     0.042    =    0.060 gram.
  Cream                         26     ×     0.42     =    0.109
  Sugar          9 + 10 + 11 =  30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                  83     ×     0.40     =    0.332
  Fried sausage                 36     ×     3.06     =    1.101
  Soda biscuit                  39     ×     1.66     =    0.647
  Butter             12 + 15 =  27     ×     0.10     =    0.027
  Tea                          137     ×     0.048    =    0.066
  Cream meringue                59     ×     0.92     =    0.543
  Chicken broth                146     ×     0.78     =    1.138
  Bread                         52     ×     1.66     =    0.863
  Creamed potato                76     ×     0.42     =    0.319
  Custard                       76     ×     0.82     =    0.623
  Cheese crackers               10     ×     2.54     =    0.254
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.082 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.940

  Fuel value of the food      1398 calories.


_Wednesday, March 23, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—Coffee 103 grams, cream 30 grams, sugar 10 grams.

Lunch, 1.30 P. M.—Creamed codfish 64 grams, potato balls 54 grams,
biscuit 44 grams, butter 22 grams, tea 120 grams, sugar 10 grams, wheat
griddle cakes 133 grams, maple syrup 108 grams.

Dinner, 6.30 P. M.—Creamed potato 85 grams, biscuit 53 grams, butter 15
grams, apple-celery-lettuce salad 50 grams, apple pie 127 grams, coffee
67 grams, sugar 8 grams, cheese crackers 17 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            103 + 67 = 170     ×     0.042    =    0.071 gram.
  Sugar          10 + 10 + 8 =  28     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         30     ×     0.43     =    0.129
  Potato balls                  54     ×     0.68     =    0.367
  Creamed codfish               64     ×     1.26     =    0.806
  Biscuit             44 + 53 = 97     ×     1.66     =    1.610
  Butter              22 + 15 = 37     ×     0.10     =    0.037
  Tea                          120     ×     0.048    =    0.058
  Wheat griddle cakes          133     ×     1.32     =    1.760
  Maple syrup                  108     ×     0.019    =    0.021
  Creamed potato                85     ×     0.53     =    0.450
  Cheese crackers               17     ×     2.54     =    0.431
  Apple-celery salad            50     ×     0.20     =    0.100
  Apple pie                    127     ×     0.75     =    0.953
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.793 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.610

  Fuel value of the food      1984 calories.


_Thursday, March 24, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—Coffee 100 grams, cream 25 grams, sugar 8 grams.

Lunch, 1.30 P. M.—Shredded wheat biscuit 29 grams, cream 118 grams, wheat
gems 60 grams, butter 8 grams, tea 100 grams, sugar 7 grams, apple pie
102 grams.

Dinner, 6.30 P. M.—Milk-celery soup 140 grams, bread 15 grams, butter 1
gram, lettuce sandwiches 62 grams, tea 100 grams, sugar 10 grams, lemon
pie 109 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee                       100     ×     0.042    =    0.042 gram.
  Cream             25 + 118 = 143     ×     0.43     =    0.615
  Sugar           8 + 7 + 10 =  25     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Shredded wheat biscuit        29     ×     1.76     =    0.510
  Wheat gems                    60     ×     1.17     =    0.702
  Butter               8 + 1 =   9     ×     0.10     =    0.009
  Tea              100 + 100 = 200     ×     0.048    =    0.096
  Apple pie                    102     ×     0.75     =    0.765
  Milk-celery soup             140     ×     0.42     =    0.588
  Bread                         15     ×     1.36     =    0.204
  Lettuce sandwich              62     ×     1.02     =    0.632
  Lemon pie                    109     ×     0.82     =    0.894
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       5.057 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      4.310

  Fuel value of the food      1594 calories.


_Friday, March 25, 1904._

Breakfast, 7.45 A. M.—Coffee 100 grams, cream 25 grams, sugar 9 grams.

Lunch, 1.30 P. M.—Halibut with egg sauce 108 grams, mashed potato 89
grams, biscuit 48 grams, butter 10 grams, chocolate-cream cake 90 grams,
tea 100 grams, sugar 9 grams.

Dinner, 6.30 P. M.—Milk-celery soup 121 grams, lettuce sandwiches 61
grams, creamed potato 65 grams, lettuce-apple-celery salad 74 grams,
coffee 70 grams, sugar 10 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            100 + 70 = 170     ×     0.042    =    0.071 gram.
  Cream                         25     ×     0.40     =    0.100
  Sugar           9 + 9 + 10 =  28     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Halibut, etc.                108     ×     3.02     =    3.262
  Mashed potato                 89     ×     0.26     =    0.231
  Biscuit                       48     ×     1.52     =    0.730
  Butter                        10     ×     0.10     =    0.010
  Tea                          100     ×     0.048    =    0.048
  Chocolate-cream cake          90     ×     0.99     =    0.891
  Celery-milk soup             121     ×     0.52     =    0.629
  Lettuce sandwich              61     ×     0.98     =    0.598
  Lettuce-apple salad           74     ×     0.21     =    0.155
  Creamed potato                65     ×     0.37     =    0.241
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.966 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.390

  Fuel value of the food      1285 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Chittenden._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces[33] (dry).

  March 20    6.989 grams.    5.91 grams.     3.6 grams.
        21    6.621           5.52            0.0
        22    6.082           5.94           12.0
        23    6.793           5.61           18.5
        24    5.057           4.31           23.0
        25    6.966           5.39           16.9
             ------          ------         ------
                                             74.0   grams contain 6.42% N.
             38.508          32.68      +     4.75  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             38.508 grams nitrogen.   37.43 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  +1.078 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.179 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      1613.
  Nitrogen per day      6.40 grams.

Examination of the results shown in the foregoing balance makes it quite
clear that the body was essentially in nitrogenous equilibrium. Indeed,
there was a slight plus balance, showing that even with the small intake
of proteid food the body was storing up nitrogen at the rate of 0.16 gram
per day. The average daily intake of nitrogen for the six days’ period
was 6.40 grams, equal to 40.0 grams of proteid or albuminous food. The
average daily output of nitrogen through the urine and fæces was 6.24
grams. The average daily output of nitrogen through the urine for the six
days’ period was 5.44 grams, corresponding to the metabolism of 34 grams
of proteid material. When these figures are contrasted with the usually
accepted standards of proteid requirement for the healthy man, they are
certainly somewhat impressive, especially when it is remembered that
the body at that date had been in essentially this same condition for
at least six months, and probably for an entire year. The Voit standard
of 118 grams of proteid, with an equivalent of at least 18 grams of
nitrogen and calling for the metabolism of 105 grams of proteid, or 16.5
grams of nitrogen per day, makes clear how great a physiological economy
had been accomplished. In other words, the consumption of proteid food
was reduced to at least one-third the daily amount generally considered
as representing the average requirement of the healthy man, and this
with maintenance of body-weight at practically a constant point for the
preceding ten months, and, so far as the writer can observe, with no loss
of vigor, capacity for mental and physical work, or endurance. Indeed,
the writer is disposed to maintain that he has done more work and led
a more active life in every way during the period of this experiment,
and with greater comfort and less fatigue than usual. His health has
certainly been of the best during this period.

In this connection it may be well to call attention to the completeness
of the utilization of the daily food in this six days’ experiment, as
shown by the small amount of refuse discharged per rectum, indicating
as it does the high efficiency of the digestive processes and of the
processes of absorption. The refuse matter for the entire period of six
days amounted when dry to only 74 grams, and when it is remembered how
large a proportion of this refuse must of necessity be composed of the
cast-off secretions from the body, it will be seen how thorough must have
been the utilization of the food by the system. The loss of nitrogen
to the body per day through the fæces amounted to only 0.79 gram, and
this on a mixed diet containing considerable matter not especially
concentrated, and on some days with noticeable amounts of food, such as
salads, not particularly digestible.

Finally, emphasis should be laid upon the fact that this economy of
proteid food, this establishment of nitrogen equilibrium on a low
proteid intake, was accomplished without increase in the daily intake of
non-nitrogenous foods. In fact, the amount of fats and carbohydrates was
likewise greatly reduced, far below the minimal standard of 3000 calories
as representing the potential energy or fuel value of the daily diet.
Indeed, during the balance period of six days just described the average
fuel value of the food per day was only a little over 1600 calories.

As the experiment continued and the record for the months of April and
May was obtained, it became evident from the nitrogen results that the
rate of proteid katabolism was being still more reduced. A second balance
experiment was therefore tried with a view to seeing if the body was
still in nitrogen equilibrium, and also to ascertain whether the fuel
value of the food still showed the same low calorific power. For a period
of five days, June 23 to 27, the intake of food and the entire output
were carefully compared, with the results shown in the accompanying
tables.


_Thursday, June 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 123 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 11 grams.

Lunch.—Omelette 50 grams, French fried potatoes 70 grams, bacon 10 grams,
wheat gems 43 grams, butter 9 grams, strawberries 125 grams, sugar 20
grams, cream cake 59 grams.

Dinner.—Beefsteak 34 grams, peas 60 grams, creamed potato 97 grams, bread
26 grams, butter 17 grams, lettuce-orange salad 153 grams, crackers 43
grams, cream cheese 15 grams, coffee 53 grams, sugar 12 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            123 + 53 = 176     ×     0.045    =    0.079 gram.
  Cream                         50     ×     0.35     =    0.175
  Sugar         11 + 20 + 12 =  43     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Omelette                      50     ×     1.32     =    0.660
  French fried potatoes         70     ×     0.37     =    0.259
  Bacon                         10     ×     3.43     =    0.343
  Wheat gems                    43     ×     1.49     =    0.641
  Butter              9 + 17 =  26     ×     0.13     =    0.034
  Strawberries                 125     ×     0.11     =    0.138
  Cream cake                    59     ×     0.98     =    0.578
  Beefsteak                     34     ×     4.14     =    1.408
  Peas                          60     ×     0.97     =    0.582
  Creamed potato                97     ×     0.34     =    0.330
  Bread                         26     ×     1.23     =    0.320
  Lettuce-orange salad         153     ×     0.15     =    0.230
  Crackers                      43     ×     1.40     =    0.602
  Cream cheese                  15     ×     1.62     =    0.243
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.622 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.260

  Fuel value of the food      1863 calories.


_Friday, June 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 96 grams, sugar 8 grams, milk 32 grams.

Lunch.—Creamed codfish 89 grams, baked potato 95 grams, butter 10 grams,
hominy gems 58 grams, strawberries 86 grams, sugar 26 grams, ginger snaps
47 grams.

Dinner.—Cold tongue 14 grams, fried potato 48 grams, peas 60 grams, wheat
gems 30 grams, butter 11 grams, lettuce-orange salad with mayonnaise
dressing 155 grams, crackers 22 grams, cream cheese 14 grams, ginger
snaps 22 grams, coffee 58 grams, sugar 10 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            123 + 53 = 176     ×     0.045    =    0.079 gram.
  Sugar          8 + 26 + 10 =  44     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk                          32     ×     0.51     =    0.163
  Creamed codfish               89     ×     1.78     =    1.584
  Baked potato                  95     ×     0.29     =    0.276
  Butter             10 + 11 =  21     ×     0.13     =    0.027
  Hominy gems                   58     ×     1.20     =    0.696
  Strawberries                  86     ×     0.11     =    0.095
  Ginger snaps       47 + 22 =  69     ×     1.15     =    0.794
  Cold tongue                   14     ×     4.87     =    0.682
  Fried potato                  48     ×     0.37     =    0.178
  Peas                          60     ×     0.94     =    0.564
  Wheat gems                    30     ×     1.45     =    0.435
  Lettuce-orange salad, etc.   155     ×     0.15     =    0.233
  Crackers                      22     ×     1.40     =    0.308
  Cream cheese                  14     ×     1.62     =    0.227
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.331 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.300

  Fuel value of the food      1506 calories.


_Saturday, June 25, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 101 grams, milk 36 grams, sugar 13 grams.

Lunch.—Omelette 50 grams, bacon 9 grams, French fried potato 23 grams,
biscuit 29 grams, butter 8 grams, cream cheese 17 grams, iced tea 150
grams, sugar 15 grams, ginger snaps 42 grams.

Dinner.—Wheat popovers 57 grams, butter 10 grams, lettuce-orange salad
with mayonnaise dressing 147 grams, cream cheese 21 grams, crackers 22
grams, cottage pudding 82 grams, coffee 48 grams, sugar 11 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee           1201 + 48 = 149     ×     0.045    =    0.067 gram.
  Milk                          36     ×     0.46     =    0.166
  Sugar         13 + 15 + 11 =  39     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Omelette                      50     ×     1.42     =    0.710
  Bacon                          9     ×     2.66     =    0.239
  French fried potato           23     ×     0.57     =    0.131
  Biscuit                       29     ×     1.35     =    0.392
  Butter              8 + 10 =  18     ×     0.13     =    0.023
  Iced tea                     150     ×     0.018    =    0.027
  Ginger snaps                  42     ×     1.15     =    0.483
  Cream cheese       17 + 21 =  38     ×     1.62     =    0.616
  Wheat popovers                57     ×     1.64     =    0.935
  Lettuce-orange salad         147     ×     0.15     =    0.221
  Crackers                      22     ×     1.40     =    0.308
  Cottage pudding               82     ×     0.76     =    0.623
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       4.941 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      4.430

  Fuel value of the food      1392 calories.


_Sunday, June 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 122 grams, cream 31 grams, sugar 8 grams.

Dinner.—Roast lamb 50 grams, baked potato 52 grams, peas 64 grams,
biscuit 32 grams, butter 12 grams, lettuce salad 43 grams, cream cheese
21 grams, toasted crackers 23 grams, blanc mange 164 grams.

Supper.—Iced tea 225 grams, sugar 29 grams, lettuce sandwich 51 grams,
strawberries 130 grams, sugar 22 grams, cream 40 grams, sponge cake 31
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee                       122     ×     0.045    =    0.055 gram.
  Cream              31 + 40 =  71     ×     0.32     =    0.227
  Sugar          8 + 26 + 10 =  44     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roast lamb                    50     ×     4.28     =    2.140
  Baked potato                  52     ×     0.29     =    0.151
  Peas                          64     ×     1.04     =    0.666
  Biscuit                       32     ×     1.35     =    0.432
  Butter                        12     ×     0.13     =    0.016
  Lettuce salad                 43     ×     0.23     =    0.099
  Cream cheese                  21     ×     1.62     =    0.340
  Toasted crackers              23     ×     1.36     =    0.313
  Blanc mange                  164     ×     0.35     =    0.574
  Iced tea                     225     ×     0.018    =    0.041
  Lettuce sandwich              51     ×     0.85     =    0.434
  Strawberries                 130     ×     0.11     =    0.143
  Sponge cake                   31     ×     0.94     =    0.291
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       5.922 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      4.660

  Fuel value of the food      1533 calories.


_Monday, June 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 112 grams, cream 22 grams, sugar 10 grams.

Lunch.—Roast lamb 9 grams, baked potato 90 grams, wheat gems 47 grams,
butter 12 grams, sugar 25 grams, iced tea 250 grams, vanilla éclair 47
grams.

Dinner.—Lamb chop 32 grams, asparagus 49 grams, butter 17 grams, creamed
potato 107 grams, bread 35 grams, lettuce-orange salad with mayonnaise
dressing 150 grams, cream cheese 12 grams, crackers 21 grams, coffee 63
grams, sugar 9 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee            123 + 53 = 176     ×     0.045    =    0.079 gram.
  Cream                         22     ×     0.32     =    0.070
  Sugar           10 + 25 + 9 = 44     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Iced tea                     250     ×     0.018    =    0.045
  Baked potato                  90     ×     0.25     =    0.225
  Wheat gems                    47     ×     1.65     =    0.776
  Butter              12 + 17 = 29     ×     0.13     =    0.038
  Roast lamb                     9     ×     4.28     =    0.385
  Vanilla éclair                47     ×     0.85     =    0.400
  Lamb chops                    32     ×     4.57     =    1.462
  Asparagus                     49     ×     0.59     =    0.289
  Creamed potato               107     ×     0.40     =    0.428
  Bread                         35     ×     1.33     =    0.466
  Lettuce-orange salad, etc.   150     ×     0.23     =    0.345
  Cream cheese                  12     ×     1.62     =    0.194
  Crackers                      21     ×     1.35     =    0.284
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       5.486 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      4.980

  Fuel value of the food      1454 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Chittenden._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  June 23     6.622 grams.    5.26 grams.    10.6 grams.
       24     6.331           5.30            0.7
       25     4.941           4.43           14.2
       26     5.922           4.66           11.9
       27     5.486           4.98           15.2
             ------          ------         ------
                                             82.6   grams contain 6.08% N.
             29.302          24.63      +     5.022 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             29.302 grams nitrogen.   29.652 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -0.350 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.070 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      1549.
  Nitrogen per day      5.860 grams.

Examination of these figures makes quite clear that the body was still in
nitrogen equilibrium, or essentially so, the minus balance being so small
as to have little significance. The body-weight was still stationary, and
yet during this balance period the average daily intake of nitrogen was
only 5.86 grams, corresponding to 36.62 grams of proteid or albuminous
food. Further, the average daily fuel value of the food was only 1549
calories, a trifle less than in the preceding period. The average daily
output of nitrogen through the urine for this period was 4.92 grams,
corresponding to the metabolism of 30.7 grams of proteid food. Hence, the
results of this period confirm those of the preceding period and make it
quite clear that this subject, with a body-weight of 57.5 kilos, can be
maintained in body equilibrium, and in nitrogen equilibrium, on a daily
diet containing only 5.8 grams of nitrogen and with a fuel value of about
1600 calories. Under these conditions, as in the last balance period,
the daily amount of nitrogen metabolized was very small, averaging only
4.92 grams. Comparison of this figure with the accepted standard of 16
grams of nitrogen makes quite clear the extent of the physiological
economy which is attainable by the body, and emphasizes also the extent
of the unnecessary and worse than useless labor put upon the body by the
prevalent dietetic habits of the majority of mankind.

It is of course understood that the low fuel value which sufficed to
keep the writer in body equilibrium would not meet the requirements
of a more active life, with greater physical labor. The writer has
led a very busy life during the year of this experiment, but it has
been mental activity rather than physical, although doubtless he has
exercised as much as the ordinary professional worker not accustomed to
athletic sports. The results of the experiment, however, make it quite
clear that a man of the above body-weight, even though he lead a very
active life—not involving great physical labor—can maintain his body in
equilibrium indefinitely with an intake of 36 to 40 grams of proteid or
albuminous food, and with a total fuel value of about 1600 calories.
Further, it is to be understood that there is no special form of diet
involved in the accomplishment of such a result. Scrutiny of the daily
diet, tabulated in the two balance periods, will show the character of
the food made use of. Personal likes and dislikes must naturally enter
into the choice of any diet, and freedom of choice, freedom to follow
the dictates of one’s appetite, with such regulation as comes from the
use of reason and intelligence, are all that is necessary to secure the
desired end. Physiological economy in nutrition is easily attainable and
does not involve the adoption of vegetarianism. It does mean, however,
temperance and simplicity in diet, coupled with intelligent regulation,
which, however, soon becomes a habit and eventually leads to a moderation
in diet which fully satisfies all the cravings of appetite as completely
as it suffices to maintain the body in equilibrium and in a general
condition of health and vigor.

Taking the data recorded above, we may now calculate the nitrogen
requirement of the body per kilo of body-weight. With the body-weight
placed at 57 kilos and with an average daily elimination of nitrogen
for nearly nine months of 5.699 grams, or practically 5.7 grams, it is
evident that the nitrogen metabolized per kilo of body-weight in the
present instance was exactly 0.1 gram. If we take the lower figure of
5.40 grams of nitrogen, the average daily excretion from April 13 to
June 27, we find the nitrogen requirement to be 0.0947 gram per kilo
of body-weight. Translating these figures into terms of proteid or
albuminous matter, they mean the utilization or metabolism of 0.625 gram
of proteid matter daily per kilo of body-weight, under the conditions of
life, activity, and general food consumption prevailing throughout this
period of nearly nine months with this particular individual.

Whether we are justified in saying that this figure represents the
_minimal_ proteid requirement of this particular individual is
perhaps questionable, since the proteid or nitrogen requirement will
of necessity vary somewhat with the amount of non-nitrogenous food
consumed. Doubtless, the nitrogen metabolism could be reduced still
lower by increasing the intake of non-nitrogenous food, but under the
above conditions of life, following a plan of living both congenial and
satisfactory, one that fully sufficed to keep the body in equilibrium
and with the practice of a general physiological economy, we may say
that the metabolism of 0.1 gram of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight
was quite sufficient to meet all the requirements of the body. Health,
strength, mental and physical vigor have been maintained unimpaired,
and there is a growing conviction that in many ways there is a distinct
improvement in both the physical and mental condition. Greater freedom
from fatigue, greater aptitude for work, greater freedom from minor
ailments, have gradually become associated in the writer’s mind with
this lowered proteid metabolism and general condition of physiological
economy. The writer, however, is fully alive to the necessity of caution
in the acceptance of one’s feelings as a measure of physical or mental
condition, but he has been keenly watchful for any and every sign or
symptom during the course of these experiments, and is now strongly of
the opinion that there is much good to be gained in the adoption of
dietetic habits that accord more closely with the true physiological
needs of the body. If a man of 57 kilos body-weight can maintain a
condition of equilibrium, with continuance of health, strength, and vigor
(to say nothing of possible improvement), with a daily consumption of say
40 grams of proteid food and sufficient non-nitrogenous food to yield
2000 calories, why should he load up his system each day with three times
this amount of proteid food, with enough more fat and carbohydrate to
yield 3000 plus calories?

Finally, the writer in summing up his own experience is inclined to say
that while he entered upon this experiment simply with a view to studying
the question from a purely scientific and physiological standpoint,
he has become so deeply impressed with the great gain to the body by
this practice of physiological economy, and his system has become so
accustomed to the new level of nutrition that there is no desire to
return to the more liberal dietetic habits of former years.

       *       *       *       *       *

Obviously, it is not wise nor safe to draw too broad deductions from a
single individual, nor from a single experiment even though it extends
over a long period of time; consequently, we may turn our attention to
other individuals with presumably different personality and different
habits of life. The writer’s colleague, Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel,
Professor of Physiological Chemistry in the Sheffield Scientific School,
kindly volunteered to become a subject of experiment. With a body-weight
of 76 kilos, 32 years of age, and of strong physique, he commenced to
modify his diet about the middle of October, 1903, diminishing gradually
the amount of proteid food with the results shown in the following
tables, where are given, as in the preceding experiment, the amounts
of nitrogen in the urine, as a measure of the quantity of proteid
metabolized, uric acid, and other factors of interest in this connection.

The collection of data commenced on October 26, 1903. During some weeks
the urine of each day was not analyzed by itself, but an aliquot part
was taken from the 24 hours’ quantity, and at the end of a week the
determinations were made on the mixture, thereby giving the average
daily composition for the period. With Dr. Mendel, as in the writer’s
case, there was no prescribing of food, but perfect freedom of choice.
The appetite was satisfied each day, but with a gradual diminution of
proteid food, especially of meat. Dr. Mendel appeared to accomplish the
desired end best by keeping up a liberal allowance of non-nitrogenous
food, and the total potential energy of the daily diet was not so greatly
diminished as in the writer’s case. In other words, he appeared to need
more food, but succeeded without great effort in reducing the proteid
intake to nearly as low a level as in the preceding experiment. For the
period of three months from January 4 to April 3, 1904, the average daily
excretion of nitrogen amounted to 6.46 grams, which means the metabolism
of 40.37 grams of proteid or albuminous food per day for this quarter of
the year.


MENDEL.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.   26 |  76.2 | 1310  | 1019 |   10.53   |           |           |
  |        27 |  75.0 | 1650  | 1016 |   13.46   |    0.580  |    1.90   |
  |        28 |  74.5 |  915  | 1023 |   11.03   |           |           |
  |        29 |  74.5 |  825  | 1025 |   11.48   |    0.629  |    1.87   |
  |        30 |  74.6 | 1330  | 1018 |   13.17   |           |           |
  |        31 |  74.5 | 1045  | 1021 |   12.37   |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  74.5 | 1030  | 1020 |   10.38   |    0.602  |    1.59   |
  |         2 |       | 1080  | 1017 |    9.59   |           |           |
  |         3 |  74.5 | 1058  | 1016 |    8.86   |    0.528  |    1.63   |
  |         4 |  74.5 |  975  | 1019 |    8.66   |           |           |
  |         5 |  74.5 | 1030  | 1021 |    8.90   |    0.514  |    1.83   |
  |         6 |       | 1230  | 1015 |    8.11   |           |           |
  |         7 |  74.6 | 1450  | 1016 |    8.18   |           |           |
  |         8 |  74.0 |  970  | 1019 |    7.91   |    0.424  |    1.92   |
  |         9 |  74.0 |  620  | 1028 |    7.72   |           |           |
  |        10 |  74.0 |  543  | 1027 |    6.60   |    0.390  |    1.17   |
  |        11 |  74.0 | 1160  | 1016 |    7.03   |           |           |
  |        12 |  74.0 |  863  | 1024 |    5.37   |    0.422  |    1.52   |
  |        13 |  74.0 | 1410  | 1015 |    8.12   |           |           |
  |        14 |  74.0 | 1265  | 1017 |    8.04   |    0.494  |    1.94   |
  |        16 |  74.0 |  760  | 1021 |    6.93   |           |           |
  |        17 |  74.0 |  850  | 1021 |    7.34   |    0.393  |    1.50   |
  |        18 |  74.0 |  757  | 1020 |    6.84   |    0.364  |           |
  |        19 |  74.0 |  720  | 1025 |    7.35   |    0.456  |    1.25   |
  |        20 |  74.0 |  655  | 1027 |    7.23   |    0.474  |           |
  |        21 |  74.0 |  985  | 1021 |    7.44   |    0.397  |           |
  |        22 |  74.5 |  590  | 1026 |    7.65   |    0.395  |    1.20   |
  |        23 |  74.5 | 1100  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  74.0 | 1200  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       | 1030  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  74.0 |  850  |      |⎬   7.00   |    0.410  |    1.72   |
  |        27 |       |  935  | 1020 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        28 |  74.5 |  870  | 1021 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        29 |  74.5 |  993  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  74.5 |  650  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  74.5 |  960  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  790  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  74.0 |  880  | 1023 |⎬   7.28   |   0.480   |    1.80   |
  |         4 |       | 1200  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  74.0 |   930 | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  1080 | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  73.5 |   790 | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  73.5 |   965 | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  74.0 |  1130 | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  73.0 |   630 | 1031 |⎬   7.63   |   0.438   |    1.91   |
  |        11 |  73.0 |   925 | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  1395 | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  73.0 |  1010 | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  1030 | 1020 |    7.73   |           |           |
  |        15 |  73.0 |   875 | 1021 |    7.88   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |   625 | 1027 |    6.48   |⎫          |           |
  |        17 |       |   700 | 1027 |    7.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        18 |       |   880 | 1022 |    8.39   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |       |   935 | 1020 |    7.68   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  1075 | 1019 |    7.35   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |   523 | 1032 |    6.37   |⎬   0.259  |    1.10   |
  |        22 |       |  1455 | 1017 |    8.99   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |   920 | 1021 |    8.33   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |   725 | 1025 |    8.56   |⎪          |           |
  |        25 |       |   865 | 1024 |    8.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        26 |       |   710 | 1027 |    7.54   |⎭          |           |
  |        27 |       |   910 | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |   830 | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |   730 | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |   670 | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       |   630 |      |⎬   7.64   |    0.438  |    1.16   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |       |   550 |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  1030 | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  1020 | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |   750 | 1021 |    5.63   |⎫          |           |
  |         5 |       |  1030 | 1016 |    5.31   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  73.0 |   815 | 1023 |    5.77   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |  72.7 |   930 | 1019 |    6.02   |⎬   0.436  |    1.41   |
  |         8 |  73.5 |  1135 | 1017 |    5.72   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  72.2 |   995 | 1020 |    6.39   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |       |  1175 | 1017 |    6.84   |⎭          |           |
  |        11 |  72.0 |  1050 | 1017 |    6.17   |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |  72.2 | 1230  | 1015 |    6.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  71.8 | 1250  | 1016 |    7.43   |⎬   0.443  |    1.43   |
  |        14 |  71.8 | 1140  | 1015 |    7.05   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       |  965  | 1019 |    5.99   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       |  860  | 1023 |    6.71   |⎭          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1030  | 1018 |    5.81   |⎫          |           |
  |        18 |       |  730  | 1028 |    5.74   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |       |  825  | 1023 |    6.58   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1035  | 1021 |    6.70   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  725  | 1030 |    6.96   |⎬   0.465  |    1.48   |
  |        22 |       |  815  | 1023 |    6.99   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  950  | 1018 |    6.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  71.6 |  790  | 1025 |    5.93   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  71.3 |  740  | 1027 |    5.33   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  600  | 1030 |    5.44   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  965  | 1020 |    6.89   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1045  | 1015 |    6.33   |⎬   0.429  |    1.29   |
  |        29 |       |  895  | 1017 |    6.28   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  70.6 |  660  | 1027 |    6.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |       |  905  | 1021 |    6.79   |⎭          |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  71.7 |  695  | 1025 |    5.13   |⎫          |           |
  |         2 |       |  950  | 1023 |    6.84   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1210  | 1019 |    8.10   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  71.5 |  985  | 1020 |    6.74   |⎬   0.451  |    1.40   |
  |         5 |       | 1155  | 1020 |    6.51   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  71.1 | 1035  | 1019 |    6.27   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |  70.8 |  760  | 1025 |    6.98   |⎭          |           |
  |         8 |  70.5 |  800  | 1022 |    6.29   |           |           |
  |         9 |  70.6 | 1150  | 1023 |    7.52   |    0.448  |           |
  |        10 |  70.4 |  770  | 1022 |    6.75   |    0.318  |           |
  |        11 |  69.2 |  520  | 1031 |    6.71   |    0.458  |           |
  |        12 |  69.4 |  565  | 1033 |    8.24   |    0.390  |           |
  |        13 |  69.4 |  560  | 1030 |    7.83   |    0.420  |           |
  |        14 |  69.2 |  690  | 1027 |    7.99   |    0.447  |           |
  |        15 |  69.5 |  680  | 1027 |    7.50   |⎫          |           |
  |        16 |       |  995  | 1019 |    6.86   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1055  | 1018 |    5.63   |⎪          |           |
  |        18 |       | 1185  | 1015 |    6.11   |⎬   0.420  |           |
  |        19 |       |  712  | 1025 |    5.72   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  70.5 | 1000  | 1021 |    7.38   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  70.6 | 1235  | 1014 |    5.93   |⎭          |           |
  |        22 |       |  900  | 1018 |    6.16   |⎫          |           |
  |        23 |  70.2 |  840  | 1020 |    5.49   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  875  | 1017 |    5.83   |⎪          |           |
  |        25 |  70.5 | 1450  | 1018 |    8.09   |⎬   0.488  |           |
  |        26 |  70.2 | 1485  | 1015 |    6.68   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1300  | 1013 |    5.93   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |  69.2 |  735  | 1022 |    5.91   |⎭          |           |
  |        29 |       |  575  | 1030 |    6.21   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       |  975  | 1019 |    7.51   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  70.5 | 1240  | 1015 |    7.29   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1400  | 1013 |    6.63   |⎬   0.462  |           |
  |         4 |  70.2 | 1375  | 1016 |    7.34   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  69.9 | 1100  | 1017 |    7.06   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  70.0 |  960  | 1020 |    6.51   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  70.5 |  970  | 1017 |    5.53   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  70.9 | 1220  | 1015 |    5.56   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  70.9 | 1285  | 1015 |    5.70   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |       | 1000  | 1020 |    6.24   |⎬   0.413  |           |
  |        11 |  70.8 | 1120  | 1017 |    5.98   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |       | 1285  | 1015 |    6.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  70.4 | 1110  | 1015 |    5.79   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  70.0 |  690  | 1024 |    5.92   |⎫          |           |
  |        15 |  70.6 | 1240  | 1017 |    7.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  70.8 | 1450  | 1016 |    7.47   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  70.2 |  780  | 1022 |    6.41   |⎬   0.485  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1230  | 1012 |    6.57   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |  70.1 |  780  | 1027 |    6.41   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  950  | 1020 |    6.21   |⎭          |           |
  |        21 |  70.7 | 1005  | 1020 |    6.36   |⎫          |           |
  |        22 |  70.9 | 1525  | 1014 |    6.50   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  70.6 |  825  | 1023 |    6.39   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  70.4 |  550  | 1029 |    6.07   |⎬   0.527  |           |
  |        25 |       | 1070  | 1018 |    6.93   |⎪          |           |
  |        26 |  70.8 | 1100  | 1017 |    6.40   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  70.6 | 1115  | 1016 |    5.82   |⎭          |           |
  |        28 |  70.2 | 1185  | 1015 |    6.22   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  70.5 | 1370  | 1014 |    6.58   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  70.3 | 1185  | 1016 |    6.26   |⎬   0.389  |           |
  |        31 |  70.3 | 1325  | 1013 |    5.96   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       | 1060  | 1016 |    6.30   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  70.6 | 1115  | 1016 |    6.42   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  70.3 | 1290  | 1013 |    6.39   |⎭          |           |
  |         4 |  70.0 |  845  | 1022 |    6.44   |⎫          |           |
  |         5 |       | 1110  | 1020 |    6.39   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |       | 1055  | 1022 |    7.53   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       |  575  | 1027 |    6.42   |⎬   0.356  |    1.54   |
  |         8 |       |  650  | 1031 |    6.94   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |       |  795  | 1026 |    7.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |       | 1230  | 1020 |    7.01   |⎭          |           |
  |        11 |       |  850  | 1021 |    5.61   |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       | 1005  | 1018 |    6.66   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  695  | 1020 |    5.75   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |  69.6 |  910  | 1027 |    5.79   |⎬   0.419  |           |
  |        15 |  70.1 | 1000  | 1018 |    6.42   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  70.9 | 1590  | 1016 |    6.30   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  70.8 | 1250  | 1015 |    5.25   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |  70.5 |  985  | 1020 |    5.79   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  70.7 | 1230  | 1016 |    5.90   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  70.5 | 1485  | 1014 |    5.70   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  70.1 | 1125  | 1023 |    7.09   |⎬   0.453  |           |
  |        22 |  70.3 | 1665  | 1013 |    7.09   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  69.8 |  935  | 1023 |    6.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  69.7 | 1100  | 1018 |    6.07   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  69.6 |  935  | 1021 |    5.78   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  69.9 | 1000  | 1021 |    6.18   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  70.1 | 1295  | 1015 |    6.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |  70.0 | 1425  | 1013 |    5.56   |⎬   0.373  |           |
  |        29 |  70.2 |  990  | 1022 |    6.24   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  70.2 | 1100  | 1021 |    7.32   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |  70.0 | 1380  | 1014 |    5.96   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  69.8 | 1050  | 1016 |    5.35   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |  69.8 |  700  | 1022 |    5.46   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  69.5 |  900  | 1019 |    6.48   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  69.6 |  750  | 1023 |    6.52   |⎬   0.260  |           |
  |         6 |  69.7 | 1120  | 1019 |    7.26   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       | 1010  | 1020 |    6.00   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       | 1165  | 1015 |    6.01   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |  69.7 |  880  | 1020 |    5.38   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |  70.0 |  935  | 1019 |    5.22   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |  69.6 | 1050  | 1017 |    6.05   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  69.8 |  950  | 1020 |    6.15   |⎬   0.408  |           |
  |        13 |       | 1060  | 1020 |    6.62   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |  69.5 | 1520  | 1015 |    6.47   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |  69.3 | 1345  | 1014 |    5.65   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |  69.0 | 1230  | 1015 |    5.09   |           |           |
  |        17 |  68.4 |  775  | 1019 |    5.11   |           |           |
  |        18 |  69.2 |  660  | 1021 |    6.06   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  68.6 |  905  | 1018 |    7.17   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  69.4 |  685  | 1022 |    6.33   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  69.1 | 1142  | 1018 |    6.78   |⎪          |           |
  |        22 |  69.5 | 1055  | 1019 |    5.70   |⎬   0.325  |           |
  |        23 |  69.6 | 1053  | 1018 |    5.75   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  69.8 |  895  | 1020 |    6.39   |⎪          |           |
  |        25 |  69.4 |  900  | 1018 |    6.05   |⎪          |           |
  |        26 |  69.7 |  725  | 1025 |    6.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  70.0 |  705  | 1026 |    7.36   |⎭          |           |
  |        28 |  71.0 | 1115  | 1020 |    8.23   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |       | 1370  | 1016 |    7.83   |⎬   0.476  |           |
  |        30 |  69.7 |  740  | 1023 |    7.10   |⎭          |           |
  |        31 |       | 1135  | 1017 |    5.93   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       | 1300  | 1018 |    6.86   |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1420  | 1014 |    6.06   |           |           |
  |         3 |  69.7 | 1447  | 1015 |    7.03   |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1383  | 1016 |    5.97   |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1530  | 1015 |    6.43   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  870  | 1023 |    5.53   |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1010  | 1013 |    4.91   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  815  | 1019 |    5.53   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  865  | 1019 |    6.59   |           |           |
  |        10 |  69.7 | 1110  | 1015 |    6.36   |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1410  | 1017 |    5.95   |           |           |
  |        12 |  69.1 | 1510  | 1014 |    6.07   |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1100  | 1016 |    5.94   |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1090  | 1018 |    5.43   |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1380  | 1017 |    6.46   |           |           |
  |        16 |  70.0 | 1760  | 1014 |    6.55   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1755  | 1013 |    6.63   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1075  | 1026 |    6.06   |           |           |
  |        19 |  70.0 | 1285  | 1016 |    6.55   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  585  | 1022 |    5.44   |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  595  | 1024 |    6.93   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  655  | 1023 |    7.07   |           |           |
  |        23 |       | 1230  | 1015 |    7.45   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily aver. from   |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 10, 1903.   | 1001  | 1020 |    6.53   |    0.419  |    1.46   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

From November 10, 1903, to June 23, 1904, a period of about seven months
and a half, the average daily excretion of nitrogen through the urine
was 6.53 grams. In other words, throughout this long period the average
daily amount of proteid matter metabolized was 40.8 grams, only a
little more than one-third the amount called for by the Voit standard.
Until February, the body-weight gradually fell, but from the early part
of February until the end of the experiment the body-weight remained
practically stationary at 70 kilos. Dr. Mendel, however, from the
necessities of his daily work in the laboratory was compelled to a much
greater degree of physical activity than the subject of the preceding
experiment, and consequently required a larger amount of non-nitrogenous
food than the latter. Further, owing to his greater physical activity and
the necessary variations in this daily activity, it was not so easy at
first to attain equilibrium.

On February 9, a balance experiment of six days was commenced, with a
careful comparison of the nitrogen intake and output. In the accompanying
tables are shown all of the data. By scrutiny of these it will be seen
that Dr. Mendel had adopted essentially a vegetarian diet. During this
period of six days, however, he was not in nitrogen equilibrium,
neither was he strictly in body equilibrium, since there was a distinct
tendency for the body to fall off in weight. In this connection it may
be mentioned that there is always a tendency during a balance experiment
of this character for the subject to eat less than he is ordinarily
accustomed to, owing to the tediousness of weighing every particle of
food consumed. Further, for the same reason, and to avoid excess of
chemical work in the analysis of samples of food, he is inclined to limit
his diet to a few articles and thereby unconsciously restricts his intake
of food, sometimes disastrously so.


_Tuesday, February 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 33 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Consommé 150 grams, sweet potato 170 grams, bread 135 grams,
tomato 106 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams, sugar 20 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 75 grams, mashed potato 200 grams, string beans 91 grams,
apple pie 282 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams, sugar 20 grams, water 100
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread        33 + 135 + 75 = 243     ×     1.36     =    3.30 grams.
  Sugar         20 + 20 + 20 =  60     ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Coffee (breakfast)           210     ×     0.10     =    0.21
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.38     =    0.57
  Sweet potato                 170     ×     0.28     =    0.48
  Tomato                       106     ×     0.19     =    0.20
  Coffee (lunch)               210     ×     0.15     =    0.32
  Potato                       200     ×     0.36     =    0.72
  String beans                  91     ×     0.26     =    0.24
  Apple pie                    282     ×     0.49     =    1.38
  Coffee (dinner)              210     ×     0.099    =    0.21
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.63 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.52

  Fuel value of the food      2297 calories.


_Wednesday, February 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 37 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 110 grams, sugar 7 grams, milk 250 grams, apple fritters 90
grams.

Dinner.—Bread 37 grams, sugar 21 grams, baked beans 100 grams, cranberry
sauce 125 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams, molasses candy 54 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread        37 + 110 + 37 = 184     ×     1.65     =    3.04 grams.
  Sugar          20 + 7 + 21 =  48     ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Coffee (breakfast)           210     ×     0.12     =    0.25
  Milk                         250     ×     0.55     =    1.37
  Apple fritters                90     ×     0.45     =    0.40
  Baked beans                  100     ×     1.40     =    1.40
  Cranberry sauce              125     ×     0.04     =    0.05
  Coffee (dinner)              210     ×     0.11     =    0.23
  Candy                         54     ×     0.06     =    0.03
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.77 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.75

  Fuel value of the food      1673 calories.


_Thursday, February 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 40 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 95 grams, sweet potato 130 grams, sugar 7 grams, milk 250
grams, peach preserve 93 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 90 grams, mashed potato 100 grams, tomato purée 135 grams,
baked beans 75 grams, lemon pie 110 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread         40 + 95 + 90 = 225     ×     1.75     =    3.94 grams.
  Sugar          20 + 7 + 21 =  48     ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Coffee (breakfast)           210     ×     0.096    =    0.20
  Sweet potato                 130     ×     0.31     =    0.40
  Milk                         250     ×     0.51     =    1.27
  Peach preserve                93     ×     0.09     =    0.08
  Potato                       100     ×     0.36     =    0.36
  Tomato purée                 135     ×     0.33     =    0.45
  Baked beans                   75     ×     1.30     =    0.98
  Lemon pie                    110     ×     0.61     =    0.67
  Coffee (dinner)              210     ×     0.13     =    0.27
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.62 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.71

  Fuel value of the food      1828 calories.


_Friday, February 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 58 grams, sugar 21 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 120 grams, sugar 21 grams, custard 76 grams, milk 250 grams,
coffee and milk 125 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 67.5 grams, sugar 21 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, lima
beans 80 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams, apple dumpling 131 grams,
molasses candy 27 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread      58 + 120 + 67.5 = 245.5   ×     1.71     =    4.20 grams.
  Sugar         21 + 21 + 21 =  63.0   ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Coffee (breakfast)           210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.23
  Custard                       76.0   ×     0.83     =    0.63
  Milk                         250.0   ×     0.48     =    1.20
  Coffee (lunch)               125.0   ×     0.078    =    0.10
  Potato                       150.0   ×     0.37     =    0.56
  Lima beans                    80.0   ×     0.90     =    0.72
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.12     =    0.25
  Apple dumpling               131.0   ×     0.72     =    0.94
  Candy                         27.0   ×     0.06     =    0.00
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.83 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.24

  Fuel value of the food      1929 calories.


_Saturday, February 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 47.5 grams, sugar 28 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 57 grams, sugar 40 grams, sweet potato 135 grams, quince
preserve 73 grams, apple turnovers 118 grams, coffee and milk 310 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 59 grams, mashed potato 175 grams, peas 80 grams, apple pie
141.5 grams, sugar 21 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread       47.5 + 57 + 59 = 164.0   ×     1.64     =    2.69 grams.
  Sugar         28 + 40 + 21 =  89.0   ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Coffee (breakfast)           210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.23
  Sweet potato                 135.0   ×     0.37     =    0.50
  Quince preserve               73.0   ×     0.047    =    0.03
  Apple turnovers              118.0   ×     0.96     =    1.13
  Coffee (lunch)               310.0   ×     0.15     =    0.47
  Potato                       175.0   ×     0.37     =    0.65
  Peas                          80.0   ×     0.96     =    0.77
  Apple pie                    141.5   ×     0.43     =    0.61
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.23
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.31 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.83

  Fuel value of the food      2057 calories.


_Sunday, February 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 50 grams, sugar 21 grams, banana 92.5 grams, coffee and
milk 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 108.5 grams, sugar 28 grams, baked potato 165 grams, apple
sauce 114 grams, coffee and milk 210 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 63 grams, sugar 28 grams, succotash 75 grams, mashed potato
200 grams, chocolate layer cake 80 grams, ice cream 73 grams, coffee and
milk 210 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread      50 + 108.5 + 63 = 221.5   ×     1.75     =    3.87 grams.
  Sugar         21 + 28 + 28 =  77.0   ×     0.00     =    0.00
  Banana                        92.5   ×     0.002    =    0.19
  Coffee (breakfast)           210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.23
  Baked potato                 165.0   ×     0.41     =    0.68
  Apple sauce                  114.0   ×     0.029    =    0.03
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.10     =    0.21
  Succotash                     75.0   ×     0.57     =    0.43
  Mashed potato                200.0   ×     0.37     =    0.74
  Chocolate cake                80.0   ×     0.75     =    0.60
  Ice cream                     73.0   ×     0.58     =    0.42
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.23
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.63 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.99

  Fuel value of the food      2065 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Mendel._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 9      7.63 grams.     7.52 grams.
      10      6.77            6.75
      11      8.62            6.71
      12      8.83            8.24           53 ⎫ contain 5.84%
                                                ⎬   N = 6.248 grm. N.
      13      7.31            7.83           54 ⎭
      14      7.63            7.99           39.2 contain 6.72%
                                                    N = 2.634
             ------          ------         ------      -----
                                            146.2       8.882 grm. N.
             46.79           45.04      +     8.882 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             46.79 grams nitrogen.   53.92 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -7.13 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.19 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      1975.
  Nitrogen per day      7.83 grams.

In this balance period of six days the average daily intake of nitrogen
was 7.83 grams, coupled with an average fuel value of the food per day
of 1975 calories. This latter value was obviously too small for a man
of Dr. Mendel’s body-weight, and doing the amount of physical work he
was called upon to perform. Being on one’s feet in a laboratory six to
eight hours a day, in addition to the ordinary activity of a vigorous man
leading a strenuous life, necessitates the utilization and oxidation of
considerable food material. The average daily output of nitrogen through
the urine amounted to 7.50 grams, considerably above the average daily
excretion for the seven months’ period. Still, under these conditions
there was a minus balance of 7.13 grams of nitrogen for the six days’
period, indicating that the body was drawing upon its stock of proteid
material to the extent of 1.19 grams of nitrogen per day. This does
not necessarily mean that the body had need of that additional amount
of proteid matter each day, but rather that the amount of total energy
required was beyond the potential energy supplied by the food. There not
being sufficient non-nitrogenous food at hand, the body was compelled to
draw upon its own resources, and in so doing utilized some of its tissue
proteid. This is made quite clear by the results of the second balance
period shortly to be described.

It is evident, however, that while the body was not in nitrogen
equilibrium for this particular period of six days, there must have been
a general condition of both body and nitrogen equilibrium, otherwise the
body-weight would not have remained practically stationary for so long a
period as from February 7 to June 20.

Commencing May 18, a second nitrogen balance was attempted, in which,
as in the preceding case, there was a careful comparison of income and
output for seven days. There was as before a free choice of food, but it
was essentially vegetable in character. A greater variety of foods was
taken, however, and an effort was made to have the non-nitrogenous food
somewhat more liberal in amount, though in as close harmony as possible
with the desires of the appetite.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 92 grams, bread rolls 28 grams, cream 50 grams, coffee
150 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 66 grams, soup 150 grams, farina 154 grams, sweet potato 123
grams, beans 70 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams,
sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 42 grams, consommé 100 grams, spinach 100 grams, mashed
potato 250 grams, apple pie 97 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        92     ×     0.23     =    0.212 grams.
  Bread rolls                   28     ×     1.66     =    0.465
  Cream                         50     ×     0.46     =    0.230
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.066    =    0.099
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         66     ×     1.60     =    1.056
  Soup                         150     ×     0.41     =    0.615
  Farina                       154     ×     1.09     =    1.678
  Sweet Potato                 123     ×     0.32     =    0.394
  Beans                         70     ×     0.34     =    0.238
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.057    =    0.086
  Cream                         50     ×     0.46     =    0.230
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         42     ×     1.80     =    0.756
  Consommé                     100     ×     0.38     =    0.380
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.38     =    0.950
  Apple pie                     97     ×     0.43     =    0.417
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Cream                         50     ×     0.46     =    0.230
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.668 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.060

  Fuel value of the food      2359 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 102 grams, bread rolls 50 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 57 grams, egg omelette 20 grams, hominy 137 grams, syrup 68
grams, potatoes 128 grams, coffee 100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 50
grams.

Dinner.—Tomato purée 200 grams, bread 24 grams, fried sweet potato 100
grams, spinach 70 grams, Indian meal 100 grams, syrup 25 grams, coffee
100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 40 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       102     ×     0.23     =    0.235 grams.
  Bread rolls                   50     ×     1.54     =    0.770
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Cream                         50     ×     0.47     =    0.235
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         57     ×     1.60     =    0.912
  Egg Omelette                  20     ×     1.58     =    0.316
  Hominy                       137     ×     0.20     =    0.274
  Syrup                         68     ×     0.024    =    0.016
  Potatoes                     128     ×     0.49     =    0.627
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Cream                         50     ×     0.47     =    0.235
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Tomato purée                 200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Bread                         24     ×     1.74     =    0.418
  Sweet potato                 100     ×     0.38     =    0.380
  Spinach                       70     ×     0.56     =    0.392
  Indian meal                  100     ×     0.20     =    0.200
  Syrup                         25     ×     0.024    =    0.006
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         40     ×     0.47     =    0.188
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.474 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.170

  Fuel value of the food      2072 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced orange 140 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 30 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 28 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, lima beans 40 grams,
coffee 100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 30 grams, fried hominy 115 grams,
syrup 48 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 19 grams, consommé 150 grams, string beans 140 grams, mashed
potato 250 grams, rice croquette 93 grams, cranberry jam 95 grams, coffee
100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 30 grams, syrup 25 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Sliced orange                140     ×     0.20     =    0.280
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Cream                         30     ×     0.44     =    0.132
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         28     ×     1.71     =    0.479
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.30     =    0.750
  Lima beans                    40     ×     0.76     =    0.304
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         30     ×     0.44     =    0.132
  Fried hominy                 115     ×     0.57     =    0.656
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Bread                         19     ×     1.97     =    0.374
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.59     =    0.885
  String beans                 140     ×     0.36     =    0.504
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.34     =    0.850
  Rice croquettes               93     ×     1.06     =    0.986
  Cranberry jam                 95     ×     0.03     =    0.029
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         30     ×     0.44     =    0.132
  Syrup                         25     ×     0.024    =    0.006
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.691 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.330

  Fuel value of the food      1915 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 153 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 30
grams.

Lunch.—Bread 25 grams, potato croquette 229 grams, Indian meal 109 grams,
tomato 123 grams, syrup 48 grams, coffee 100 grams, sugar 14 grams, cream
20 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 31 grams, bean soup 100 grams, fried potato 200 grams,
bacon 5 grams, lettuce-orange salad 47 grams, prunes 137 grams, coffee
100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 25 grams, banana 255 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       153     ×     0.23     =    0.352 grams.
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         30     ×     0.43     =    0.129
  Bread                         25     ×     1.82     =    0.455
  Potato croquette             229     ×     0.71     =    1.626
  Indian meal                  109     ×     1.09     =    1.188
  Tomato                       123     ×     0.17     =    0.209
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         20     ×     0.43     =    0.086
  Bread                         31     ×     1.62     =    0.502
  Bean soup                    100     ×     1.21     =    1.210
  Fried potato                 200     ×     0.60     =    1.200
  Bacon                          5     ×     3.05     =    0.153
  Lettuce-orange salad          47     ×     0.21     =    0.099
  Prunes                       137     ×     0.16     =    0.219
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         25     ×     0.43     =    0.108
  Banana                       255     ×     0.23     =    0.587
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.345 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.780

  Fuel value of the food      2485 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 220 grams, orange 60 grams, coffee 100 grams, sugar 21
grams, cream 25 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 35 grams, potato 300 grams, fried rice 160 grams, syrup 63
grams, ice cream 84 grams, coffee 100 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup 100 grams, bread 21 grams, mashed potato
250 grams, spinach 40 grams, French fried potato 100 grams, strawberry
short-cake 120 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       220     ×     0.23     =    0.506 grams.
  Orange                        60     ×     0.20     =    0.120
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         25     ×     0.45     =    0.113
  Bread                         35     ×     1.57     =    0.550
  Potato                       300     ×     0.30     =    0.900
  Fried rice                   160     ×     0.75     =    1.200
  Syrup                         63     ×     0.024    =    0.015
  Ice cream                     84     ×     0.53     =    0.445
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream of celery soup         100     ×     0.33     =    0.330
  Bread                         21     ×     1.91     =    0.401
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.37     =    0.925
  Spinach                       40     ×     0.55     =    0.220
  French fried potato          100     ×     0.57     =    0.570
  Strawberry short-cake        120     ×     0.50     =    0.600
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.015 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.700

  Fuel value of the food      2321 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 229 grams, coffee 125 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 25
grams.

Lunch.—Bread 58 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, scrambled egg 15 grams,
consommé 75 grams, fried potato 170 grams, rice croquette 197 grams,
syrup 68 grams, coffee 100 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 30 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 72.5 grams, vegetable soup 100 grams, potato croquette 198
grams, bacon 7 grams, string beans 120 grams, water ice 77 grams, coffee
100 grams, cream 30 grams, sugar 14 grams, banana 270 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       229     ×     0.23     =    0.527 grams.
  Coffee                       125     ×     0.06     =    0.075
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         25     ×     0.45     =    0.113
  Bread                         58     ×     1.63     =    0.945
  Apple sauce                  125     ×     0.02     =    0.025
  Scrambled egg                 15     ×     2.07     =    0.311
  Consommé                      75     ×     0.65     =    0.488
  Fried potato                 170     ×     0.60     =    1.020
  Rice croquette               197     ×     0.61     =    1.202
  Syrup                         68     ×     0.024    =    0.016
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         30     ×     0.45     =    0.135
  Bread                         72.5   ×     1.75     =    1.269
  Soup                         100     ×     0.70     =    0.700
  Potato croquette             198     ×     0.77     =    1.525
  Bacon                          7     ×     3.28     =    0.230
  String beans                 120     ×     0.22     =    0.264
  Water ice                     77     ×     0.006    =    0.005
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Cream                         30     ×     0.45     =    0.135
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Banana                       270     ×     0.23     =    0.621
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.726 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.750

  Fuel value of the food      2756 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 100 grams, rolls 37 grams, rice 50 grams, syrup 25
grams, coffee 125 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 50 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 77 grams, cream of celery soup 125 grams, mashed potato 270
grams, tomato sauce 50 grams, farina croquette 191 grams, syrup 78 grams,
coffee 75 grams, cream 20 grams, sugar 7 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 49 grams, tomato soup 200 grams, French fried potato 200
grams, spinach 50 grams, farina croquette 276 grams, syrup 100 grams,
coffee 100 grams, sugar 14 grams, cream 50 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       100     ×     0.20     =    0.200 grams.
  Bread rolls                   37     ×     1.64     =    0.607
  Rice                          50     ×     0.36     =    0.180
  Syrup                         25     ×     0.024    =    0.006
  Coffee                       125     ×     0.06     =    0.075
  Sugar                         21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         50     ×     0.45     =    0.225
  Bread                         77     ×     1.66     =    1.278
  Celery soup                  125     ×     0.48     =    0.600
  Mashed potato                270     ×     0.26     =    0.702
  Tomato sauce                  50     ×     0.23     =    0.115
  Farina croquette             191     ×     0.74     =    1.413
  Syrup                         78     ×     0.024    =    0.019
  Coffee                        75     ×     0.06     =    0.045
  Cream                         20     ×     0.45     =    0.090
  Sugar                          7     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         49     ×     1.82     =    0.892
  Tomato soup                  200     ×     0.19     =    0.380
  French fried potato          200     ×     0.46     =    0.920
  Spinach                       50     ×     0.54     =    0.270
  Farina croquette             276     ×     0.76     =    2.098
  Syrup                        100     ×     0.024    =    0.024
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         50     ×     0.45     =    0.225
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.424 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.390

  Fuel value of the food      3229 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Mendel._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18      8.668 grams.    6.06 grams.    14 grams.
      19      6.474           7.17           39
      20      6.691           6.33           30
                                            ------
      21      8.345           6.78           83 contain 6.06% N
                                                  = 5.03 grm. N.
      22      7.015           5.70
      23      9.726           5.75           38
      24     10.424           6.39           57
             ------          ------         ------
                                             95 contain 5.76% N
                                                  = 5.47 grm. N.
                                                  ------
                                                   10.50 grm. N.
             57.343          44.18      +    10.50  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             57.343 grams nitrogen.   54.68 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +2.663 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.380 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2448.
  Nitrogen per day      8.192 grams.

In this period of seven days the average daily intake of nitrogen was
8.192 grams, or only 0.36 gram per day more than in the first balance
period, while the average fuel value of the food amounted to 2448
calories per day. Yet the average daily output of nitrogen through the
urine for this period was 6.31 grams, or 1.2 grams per day less than
in the first balance experiment. Further, under the conditions of this
balance experiment, the body was laying up 0.380 gram of nitrogen per
day, _i. e._, showing a plus balance of 2.66 grams of nitrogen for the
seven days’ period. Again, it is to be noted that the average daily
amount of nitrogen metabolized, 6.31 grams, was 0.22 gram less than the
average daily nitrogen excretion for the entire seven months’ period,
6.53 grams. Evidently, this subject was quite able to maintain nitrogen
equilibrium with a metabolism of only 6.31 grams of nitrogen per day, on
a daily diet having a fuel value of about 2400 calories. Indeed, taking
into account the amount of the plus nitrogen balance, it is evident
that the daily food was somewhat in excess of the real requirements of
the body, under the then existing conditions of body-weight and bodily
activity.

Again, we would call attention to the thorough utilization of the food in
this experiment, emphasizing at the same time the voluminous character
of the diet, together with its largely vegetable nature. The contrast
between the diet made use of by Dr. Mendel and that used by the subject
of the first experiment is quite striking, since the latter employed
a much more concentrated diet with an average fuel value of only 1600
calories. Yet with a total intake of 57.343 grams of nitrogen for the
seven days of Dr. Mendel’s balance period, 10.5 grams only passed out
through the rectum, or 18.3 per cent, while in the second nitrogen
balance of the first subject, with the more concentrated diet, 17.1 per
cent of the total ingested nitrogen appeared in the fæces. In view of
the great divergence in the character and volume of the intake, it is
rather remarkable there should be so little difference in the relative
utilization of the two diets.

Finally, taking the average daily excretion of nitrogen through the
kidneys from November 10 to June 23, as a measure of the nitrogen
metabolized daily, viz., 6.53 grams, and taking the body-weight at 70
kilos, it is plain to see that the nitrogen metabolized per kilo of
body-weight throughout this experiment was 0.093 gram, closely similar to
the result obtained with the first subject. In other words, both of these
subjects, though widely different in body-weight, under different degrees
of physical activity, and living on different forms of diet, seemingly
required for the maintenance of equilibrium essentially the same amount
of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight; viz., with the first subject 0.0947
gram, if we take the lower figure of the last two months, and 0.093 gram
with the second subject.

Regarding the fuel value of the daily food, Dr. Mendel with a body-weight
of 70 kilos, during the second balance period, apparently utilized
on an average 34.9 calories per kilo of body-weight daily, while the
first subject, of 57 kilos body-weight, made use of only 28 calories
per kilo. The fuel value of the daily food must, however, as is well
known, vary greatly with differing degrees of physical activity, from
which arises the necessity for corresponding variation in the amounts of
non-nitrogenous foods ingested.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Frank P. Underhill, instructor in physiological chemistry in the
Sheffield Scientific School, is another subject of experiment who
volunteered to study on himself the effects of a lowered proteid intake.
Prior to the experiment he was in the habit of eliminating from 16 to
16.5 grams of nitrogen per day through the kidneys, representing the
usual 105 grams of proteid food metabolized.

Dr. Underhill, at the beginning of the experiment, July 1, 1903, was
twenty-six years of age and weighed 67.6 kilos. For a period of two
weeks, from July 14 to August 2, he gradually reduced the intake of
proteid food as well as the total amount of food consumed, doing this
in part by diminishing the quantity eaten at breakfast, and in smaller
measure at the two other meals of the day. During this period of two
weeks, the urine and fæces were analyzed with the results shown in the
accompanying table. Regarding the extent of proteid metabolism, it will
be seen that the nitrogen content of the urine fell from 14.28 grams per
day down to 5 to 6 grams per day. Having reached this level, the subject
maintained it throughout the summer of 1903, occasional analyses being
made to demonstrate the level of nitrogen excretion.

  +-------+-------+-----------------------+-----------------------+-------+
  |       | Body- |        Urine.         |         Fæces.        | Total |
  | Date. |weight.+-------+-----+---------+------+------+---------+ Nitro-|
  |       |       |Volume.| Sp. |Nitrogen.|Moist.| Dry. |Nitrogen.|  gen. |
  |       |       |       | Gr. |         |      |      |         |       |
  +-------+-------+-------+-----+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
  | 1903. |       |  c.c. |     |  grams. |grams.|grams.|  grams. | grams.|
  |July 14|  67.6 |  1300 | 1018|  14.28  | 156.0| 30.5 |   1.59  | 15.8  |
  |     15|  67.6 |  1095 | 1020|  11.72  |  70.0| 17.0 |   0.80  | 12.52 |
  |     16|  67.1 |   860 | 1021|  11.72  | 182.5| 44.5 |   2.12  | 13.84 |
  |     17|  66.9 |   675 | 1022|   9.39  | 134.0| 43.0 |   2.05  | 11.44 |
  |     18|  66.3 |   865 | 1021|  10.45  |  57.5| 20.0 |   0.95  | 11.40 |
  |     19|  65.7 |   785 | 1021|  10.34  | 170.0| 41.0 |   1.95  | 12.29 |
  |     20|  65.7 |   740 | 1024|  10.34  |  76.0| 35.0 |   1.66  | 12.00 |
  |     21|  65.7 |   910 | 1017|  11.61  |  96.0| 32.0 |   1.52  | 13.13 |
  |     22|  65.7 |   900 | 1013|   9.50  |  56.0| 31.0 |   1.75  | 11.25 |
  |     23|  65.3 |   600 | 1017|   8.65  |  41.0| 14.0 |   0.79  |  9.35 |
  |     24|  65.0 |   640 | 1013|   6.65  | 151.0| 33.0 |   1.86  |  8.51 |
  |     25|  65.3 |   690 | 1012|   6.01  |  86.0| 29.0 |   1.63  |  7.64 |
  |     26|  65.3 |   410 | 1023|   6.65  |  57.0| 19.0 |   1.06  |  7.71 |
  |     27|  65.7 |   530 | 1017|   6.75  | 202.0| 33.0 |   1.86  |  8.61 |
  |     28|  65.7 |   610 | 1013|   5.49  | 155.0| 26.0 |   1.46  |  6.95 |
  |     29|  66.4 |   620 | 1017|   5.96  | 121.0| 26.0 |   1.46  |  7.42 |
  |     30|  66.3 |   700 | 1016|   5.80  | 233.0| 48.0 |   2.71  |  8.51 |
  |     31|  65.8 |  1265 | 1010|   6.70  | 211.0| 36.0 |   2.03  |  8.73 |
  | Aug. 1|  65.3 |  1240 | 1009|   6.23  | 172.0| 23.0 |   1.29  |  7.52 |
  |      2|  65.3 |   760 | 1016|   6.75  | 214.0| 27.0 |   1.42  |  8.17 |
  |     11|  65.3 |   500 | 1017|   6.44  | 152.0| 22.0 |   1.34  |  7.78 |
  |     12|  65.3 |   405 | 1024|   6.86  |  70.0| 15.0 |   0.91  |  7.77 |
  |     13|  65.3 |   540 | 1019|   6.23  |  90.0| 10.0 |   0.61  |  6.84 |
  +-------+-------+-------+-----+---------+------+------+---------+-------+

In connection with the accompanying table of results, attention is called
to the composition of the fæces with special reference to their content
of nitrogen. The point to be emphasized is the gradual increase in the
percentage content of fæcal nitrogen, associated with the changed diet
and the general diminution of food intake. This is well illustrated by
the following figures, giving the percentage of nitrogen in the dry fæces
for the three periods of July 14-21, July 22-30, and August 11-13:

  July 14-21,     4.77 per cent Nitrogen
  July 22-30,     5.65  ”   ”     ”
  Aug. 11-13,     6.11  ”   ”     ”

The diminished amount of fæcal discharge means naturally not only a
smaller intake of food, but implies also a greater utilization of the
food ingested, and as a result the increased percentage of nitrogen
in the discharges shows itself because of the relatively larger
preponderance of nitrogenous secretions from the intestinal tract.

The latter part of September, 1903, Dr. Underhill attempted to return to
his original methods of living, but found difficulty in consuming the
daily quantities of food he had formerly been in the habit of taking.
From October 11 to October 25, 1903, however, he raised the consumption
of proteid food to such a degree that the nitrogen excretion through the
urine averaged from 10 to 12 grams per day. After this date he fell back
to the lower proteid intake, and from that period to June 23, 1904, he
maintained a low level of proteid metabolism without detriment to his
bodily vigor, and, as he believes, with a distinct betterment.

The following tables of results extending from October 11, 1903, to June
23, 1904, show the data collected.


UNDERHILL.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.   11 |  65.4 | 1300  | 1015 |   10.37   |    0.611  |    1.72   |
  |        12 |       |  700  | 1022 |    9.07   |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1050  | 1022 |   12.35   |    0.820  |    2.15   |
  |        14 |       | 1400  | 1017 |   12.01   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  870  | 1020 |   11.48   |    0.671  |    1.76   |
  |        16 |       | 1165  | 1013 |   12.09   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  840  | 1020 |   11.24   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1150  | 1017 |   10.00   |    0.613  |    1.77   |
  |        19 |       |  678  | 1022 |    7.79   |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1165  | 1018 |   10.76   |    0.603  |    1.60   |
  |        21 |       | 1460  | 1017 |   11.91   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  950  | 1019 |   10.71   |    0.643  |    1.73   |
  |        23 |       | 1165  | 1017 |   12.82   |           |           |
  |        24 |  65.4 |  850  | 1025 |   12.49   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  850  | 1022 |   11.07   |    0.645  |    1.76   |
  |        26 |       | 1025  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  775  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1140  | 1015 |⎬   8.31   |    0.465  |    1.18   |
  |        29 |       |  765  | 1020 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |   daily   |
  |        30 |       |  860  | 1019 |⎪  average |   average |  average  |
  |        31 |       | 1150  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |       |  750  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  675  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  955  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1270  | 1012 |⎬   7.91   |    0.469  |    1.30   |
  |         5 |       |  885  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  770  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  860  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  775  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  890  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1070  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  755  | 1020 |⎬   7.86   |    0.537  |    1.40   |
  |        12 |       |  950  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1100  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  980  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  630  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  65.0 |  700  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1000  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  940  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  770  | 1023 |⎬   7.82   |    0.467  |    1.49   |
  |        20 |       |  770  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  790  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  770  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  590  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  710  | 1024 |⎬   8.55   |    0.476  |    1.67   |
  |        28 |       | 1080  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  760  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  870  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |       |  860  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1120  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1450  | 1009 |⎬   7.72   |    0.506  |    1.43   |
  |         4 |       |  720  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  720  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  510  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  65.1 |  700  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  650  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  860  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  975  | 1020 |⎬   7.36   |    0.474  |    1.44   |
  |        11 |       |  800  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  830  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  750  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  860  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  870  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  880  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  820  |      |⎬   8.11   |    0.497  |    1.35   |
  |        18 |       |  760  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  860  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  520  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       | 1200  | 1014 |⎫   7.18   |           |    1.05   |
  |        22 |  65.0 |  510  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  650  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  670  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  500  |      |⎬   6.70   |    0.356  |    0.97   |
  |        26 |       |  550  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  850  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  65.2 |  930  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1200  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  750  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       | 1280  |      |⎬   8.70   |    0.626  |    1.21   |
  | Jan.    1 |       |  750  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  750  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  870  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1230  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  720  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  960  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  760  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1000  | 1017 |⎬   8.23   |    0.530  |    1.24   |
  |         9 |       |  720  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  65.1 |  730  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  700  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  650  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  700  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  660  | 1025 |⎬   7.74   |    0.618  |    1.20   |
  |        15 |       |  610  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  710  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  660  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  770  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  64.8 |  700  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1130  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  830  | 1020 |⎬   7.80   |    0.705  |    1.14   |
  |        22 |       |  600  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  480  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  750  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  680  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  800  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  800  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  700  | 1020 |⎬    6.85  |    0.500  |    1.07   |
  |        29 |  64.4 | 1010  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  980  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  820  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       |  990  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  660  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  64.4 | 1060  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  980  | 1017 |⎬    7.98  |    0.535  |    1.24   |
  |         5 |       |  970  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  790  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1120  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  715  | 1021 |    8.11   |           |           |
  |         9 |  64.4 | 1225  | 1014 |    7.49   |    0.450  |           |
  |        10 |  64.4 |  770  | 1018 |    6.14   |    0.505  |           |
  |        11 |  64.5 |  715  | 1022 |    8.02   |    0.568  |           |
  |        12 |       |  850  | 1021 |    8.82   |    0.539  |           |
  |        13 |       |  490  | 1028 |    7.17   |    0.505  |           |
  |        14 |  64.4 |  795  | 1020 |    7.73   |    0.543  |           |
  |        15 |       |  780  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  920  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  660  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  640  | 1027 |⎬   8.27   |    0.558  |           |
  |        19 |       |  730  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  840  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  700  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  440  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  600  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  750  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  830  | 1017 |⎬   7.47   |    0.556  |           |
  |        26 |  64.0 |  870  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  910  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  950  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  600  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       |  680  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1120  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  640  | 1021 |⎬   7.15   |    0.526  |           |
  |         4 |       | 1080  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1220  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  890  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1000  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  650  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  750  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  850  | 1018 |⎬   8.18   |    0.682  |           |
  |        11 |       |  950  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1000  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  64.2 |  860  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  840  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  920  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  750  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  820  | 1017 |⎬   7.83   |    0.540  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1220  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  920  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  700  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  900  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  980  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  990  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  750  | 1020 |⎬   8.04   |    0.733  |           |
  |        25 |       |  820  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  700  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  910  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  930  | 1017 |           |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  900  | 1020 |           |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  450  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       |  500  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  420  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  600  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  950  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  930  |      |⎬   7.87   |    0.530  |    1.44   |
  |         6 |       |  980  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  600  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  980  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  800  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  810  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  65.2 |  940  | 1017 |⎫          |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       |  710  | 1024 |⎬   9.46   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  750  | 1024 |⎭          |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  740  | 1020 |    7.55   |⎬   0.496  |           |
  |        15 |       |  590  | 1024 |    6.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       |  900  | 1016 |    7.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1290  | 1009 |    5.11   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |  65.2 |  590  | 1017 |    5.96   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       |  630  | 1024 |    6.39   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  670  | 1022 |    7.48   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  900  | 1021 |    8.10   |⎬   0.527  |           |
  |        22 |       |  980  | 1017 |    7.00   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  850  | 1019 |    7.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  640  | 1023 |    7.33   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  65.0 |  600  | 1021 |    8.23   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  610  | 1014 |    5.82   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  600  | 1023 |    7.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       |  970  | 1015 |    7.05   |⎬   0.490  |           |
  |        29 |       |  795  | 1017 |    5.91   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  700  | 1021 |    6.80   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       |  795  | 1016 |    5.72   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  65.2 |  860  | 1017 |    6.50   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1120  | 1016 |    6.92   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 1090  | 1015 |    6.54   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       |  580  | 1021 |    5.92   |⎬   0.344  |           |
  |         6 |       |  700  | 1020 |    7.29   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       |  895  | 1017 |    8.97   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       |  800  | 1016 |    7.30   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |  65.2 |  895  | 1019 |    6.28   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       |  850  | 1019 |    6.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       |  960  | 1019 |    7.26   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |       |  690  | 1022 |    6.29   |⎬   0.416  |           |
  |        13 |       |  990  | 1017 |    7.96   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  690  | 1022 |    7.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       |  900  | 1015 |    6.15   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |  65.1 |  945  | 1014 |    5.10   |⎫          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1090  | 1016 |    6.15   |⎪          |           |
  |        18 |       |  620  | 1020 |    5.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |       | 1110  | 1015 |    6.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  895  | 1016 |    6.12   |⎬   0.364  |           |
  |        21 |       |  810  | 1019 |    6.95   |⎪          |           |
  |        22 |       | 1110  | 1016 |    8.72   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  65.0 |  685  | 1020 |    7.07   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  560  | 1021 |    6.78   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1090  | 1010 |    6.02   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  610  | 1017 |    5.97   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  790  | 1016 |    6.83   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1100  | 1014 |    7.65   |⎬   0.420  |           |
  |        29 |       |  650  | 1021 |    6.12   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  65.0 |  630  | 1021 |    5.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |       |  660  | 1018 |    5.07   |⎭          |           |
  | June    1 |  65.1 |  920  | 1014 |    5.96   |           |           |
  |         2 |  65.1 |  800  | 1013 |    5.81   |           |           |
  |         3 |  65.0 |  950  | 1014 |    7.30   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  790  | 1015 |    6.78   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  780  | 1020 |    8.28   |           |           |
  |         6 |  65.1 |  890  | 1015 |    6.89   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  720  | 1017 |    5.87   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  950  | 1015 |    5.93   |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1060  | 1014 |    4.96   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  940  | 1017 |    5.92   |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1050  | 1019 |    7.62   |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1000  | 1017 |    6.66   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  890  | 1021 |    7.26   |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1340  | 1016 |    6.91   |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1190  | 1015 |    6.86   |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  720  | 1025 |    7.99   |           |           |
  |        17 |  65.2 |  800  | 1017 |    7.25   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  820  | 1018 |    6.99   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  920  | 1014 |    6.18   |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  890  | 1015 |    6.03   |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  900  | 1016 |    6.37   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  760  | 1018 |    6.79   |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  630  | 1020 |    6.06   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 26, 1903    |  833  | 1018 |    7.43   |    0.516  |    1.28   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

It will be seen by a study of the analytical data that Dr. Underhill had
an average daily excretion of nitrogen through the kidneys from October
26, 1903, to June 23, 1904, of 7.43 grams. From October 26 to April 13, a
period of nearly six months, the average daily excretion was 7.81 grams
of nitrogen, while from the latter date to June 23 the average daily
excretion amounted to 6.68 grams of nitrogen. Taking the body-weight at
65 kilos, the lower nitrogen figure would mean a metabolism of 0.102 gram
of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight, closely akin to the figures obtained
with the two preceding subjects.

An excretion of 6.68 grams of nitrogen corresponds to the metabolism
of 41.75 grams of proteid matter, while the excretion of 7.43 grams of
nitrogen implies the metabolism of 46.4 grams of proteid, being less than
one-half the ordinarily accepted requirement for the healthy adult.

During this long period of eight months the body-weight was stationary,
carrying with it the assumption that the body was in a condition of
nitrogen equilibrium. It should be emphasized in connection with Dr.
Underhill’s case, that throughout the entire period of eight months,
and more, there was perfect freedom in the choice of food. Further, it
will be noticed by a study of the dietary made use of in the balance
experiments that Dr. Underhill did not reduce his nitrogen intake by any
exclusion of meat. He practically made use of his ordinary diet, such as
he had always been accustomed to, but with a decided diminution of the
amount of proteid food, accompanied by a gradual reduction in the total
amount of food consumed each day. His diet, therefore, was in no sense a
vegetable diet. Meat was conspicuous in his daily food, but naturally in
reduced quantities.

On February 9 a nitrogen balance was attempted, in which a careful
comparison of the nitrogen content of all intake and output was made for
a period of six days. By a study of the results of this balance period,
shown in the accompanying tables, it will be noticed that not only was
there no deficiency of nitrogen, but the body was laying on nitrogen at
the rate of 0.158 gram per day. Further, it will be observed that the
fuel value of the food per day averaged only a little over 2000 calories.
Yet this amount of food, with its comparatively low fuel value, carried
with it only 8.83 grams of nitrogen per day. Upon this quantity of food
the body was able to maintain itself, with a little nitrogen to spare and
with sufficient fuel value in the food to supply all the energy required
for muscular contraction, mental effort, and the maintenance of body
temperature.


_Tuesday, February 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 22 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Macaroni 129 grams, fried sweet potato 85.5 grams, bread 59 grams,
butter 15 grams, fig cake with wine sauce 115 grams, sugar 15 grams,
coffee 210 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 27.9 grams, beef 48 grams, potato 207.5 grams, butter 19
grams, pie 272 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 10 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread       22 + 59 + 27.9 = 108.9   ×     1.61     =    1.753 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.018    =    0.026
  Macaroni                     129.0   ×     0.87     =    1.122
  Sweet potato                  85.5   ×     0.28     =    0.240
  Butter             15 + 19 =  34.0   ×     0.088    =    0.030
  Fig cake                     115.0   ×     0.69     =    0.793
  Sugar              15 + 10 =  25.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.09     =    0.207
  Beef                          48.0   ×     2.64     =    1.267
  Potatoes                     207.5   ×     0.36     =    0.747
  Pie                          272.0   ×     0.49     =    1.332
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.15     =    0.315
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.832 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.490

  Fuel value of the food      2232 calories.


_Wednesday, February 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 33 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 71 grams, butter 10.5 grams, apple fritters 119 grams,
coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Roast pork 80 grams, bread 55.7 grams, butter 27.8 grams,
cranberry sauce 150 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread       33 + 71 + 55.7 = 159.7   ×     1.65     =    2.635 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.075    =    0.109
  Butter         10.5 + 27.8 =  38.3   ×     0.088    =    0.033
  Apple fritters               119.0   ×     0.45     =    0.535
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Sugar              21 + 21 =  42.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roast pork                    80.0   ×     4.80     =    3.840
  Cranberry sauce              150.0   ×     0.04     =    0.060
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.674 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.140

  Fuel value of the food      1694 calories.


_Thursday, February 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 38.7 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 97.5 grams, butter 31.5 grams, sweet potato 108.7 grams,
spaghetti 82.5 grams, peaches 89.4 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21
grams.

Dinner.—Bread 75 grams, butter 21.5 grams, roast beef 116 grams, lemon
pie 188.5 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread     38.7 + 97.5 + 75 = 211.2   ×     1.75     =    3.696 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.084    =    0.122
  Butter         31.5 + 21.5 =  53.0   ×     0.088    =    0.046
  Sweet potato                 108.7   ×     0.31     =    0.336
  Spaghetti                     82.5   ×     0.47     =    0.387
  Peaches                       89.4   ×     0.09     =    0.080
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.096    =    0.201
  Sugar              21 + 21 =  42.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roast beef                   116.0   ×     3.00     =    3.480
  Lemon pie                    188.5   ×     0.61     =    1.149
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.13     =    0.273
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.770 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.020

  Fuel value of the food      2334 calories.


_Friday, February 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 34 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 42 grams, butter 20 grams, codfish cake 72 grams, potato 100
grams, custard 100 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 46 grams, butter 25.5 grams, veal 53 grams, potato 75
grams, lima beans 50 grams, apple dumpling 120 grams, coffee 210 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread         34 + 42 + 46 = 122.0   ×     1.71     =    2.086 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.045    =    0.065
  Butter           20 + 25.5 =  45.5   ×     0.088    =    0.040
  Codfish cake                  72.0   ×     1.57     =    1.130
  Potato                       100.0   ×     0.41     =    0.410
  Custard                      100.0   ×     0.83     =    0.830
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.078    =    0.163
  Sugar              21 + 21 =  42.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Veal                          53.0   ×     5.51     =    2.920
  Potato                        75.0   ×     0.37     =    0.277
  Lima beans                    50.0   ×     0.90     =    0.450
  Apple dumpling               120.0   ×     0.72     =    0.860
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.12     =    0.252
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.483 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.820

  Fuel value of the food      1735 calories.


_Saturday, February 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 35 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 57.5 grams, butter 28 grams, sweet potato 100 grams, coffee
210 grams, sugar 21 grams, quince 105.5 grams, apple turnovers 153 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 35.5 grams, butter 11 grams, peas 70 grams, roast beef 50
grams, pie 169 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread     35 + 57.5 + 35.5 = 128.0   ×     1.64     =    2.099 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.033    =    0.048
  Butter             28 + 11 =  39.0   ×     0.088    =    0.034
  Sweet potato                 100.0   ×     0.37     =    0.370
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.15     =    0.315
  Sugar              21 + 21 =  42.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Quince                       105.5   ×     0.047    =    0.049
  Apple turnovers              153.0   ×     0.96     =    1.468
  Peas                          70.0   ×     0.96     =    0.672
  Roast beef                    50.0   ×     3.22     =    1.610
  Pie                          169.0   ×     0.43     =    0.726
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.622 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.170

  Fuel value of the food      2186 calories.


_Sunday, February 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 31 grams, tea 146 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 70.5 grams, butter 29 grams, potato 123 grams, apple sauce
127.5 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 20.5 grams, butter 23 grams, chicken 101.5 grams, potato
80 grams, succotash 80 grams, chocolate cake 103 grams, ice cream 125.8
grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread     31 + 70.5 + 20.5 = 122.0   ×     1.75     =    2.135 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.063    =    0.091
  Butter             29 + 23 =  52.0   ×     0.088    =    0.045
  Potato                       123.0   ×     0.41     =    0.504
  Apple sauce                  127.5   ×     0.029    =    0.037
  Coffee (lunch)               210.0   ×     0.10     =    0.210
  Sugar              21 + 21 =  42.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Chicken                      101.5   ×     5.08     =    5.150
  Potato                        80.0   ×     0.37     =    0.296
  Succotash                     80.0   ×     0.57     =    0.456
  Chocolate cake               103.0   ×     0.75     =    0.772
  Ice cream                    125.8   ×     0.58     =    0.729
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.656 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.730

  Fuel value of the food      2231 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Underhill._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 9      7.832 grams.    7.49 grams.     9.5 grams.
      10      7.674           6.14
      11      9.770           8.02           32.0
      12      9.483           8.82            9.5
      13      7.622           7.17           28.0
      14     10.656           7.73           24.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            103.0   grams contain 6.52% N.
             53.037          45.37      +     6.715 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             53.037 grams nitrogen.   52.085 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  +0.952 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.158 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2068.
  Nitrogen per day      8.83 grams.

On June 1, near the close of the experiment, a second nitrogen balance
was attempted, with a view to seeing if under the existing conditions of
life and activity it was possible to reduce the fuel value of the food,
and at the same time diminish in still greater measure the quantity
of proteid food taken. The results of this trial are seen in the
accompanying tables, where for four days a careful comparison of output
and intake is shown. It will be observed from these tables that the
average fuel value of the food per day was reduced to 1785 calories, and
that the average intake of nitrogen was restricted to 6.73 grams per day.
The balance shown is a minus balance, although the deficiency per diem is
not large. It is very obvious that both the nitrogen and fuel value of
the food can be reduced considerably below the average maintained during
the period of the first balance, but not to the degree attempted in the
second balance, and secure nitrogen or body equilibrium. It will be noted
in this last nitrogen balance, that the average daily output of nitrogen
through the urine amounted to 6.46 grams, while the average nitrogen
intake was 6.73 grams. The fuel value of the food, however, averaged only
1785 calories per day. It is quite evident, if the non-nitrogenous food
had not been reduced quite so much, that a plus nitrogen balance would
have been obtained. Still, it is obvious that under the conditions of
life and activity, this subject needed to metabolize only about 40 grams
of proteid per day, with the total fuel value of his food equal to about
2000 calories, in order to secure both body and nitrogen equilibrium.
Here, again, we have an illustration of the possibility of physiological
economy which shows itself in a reduction of the daily proteid food more
than 50 per cent, with a reduction of the non-nitrogenous food fully 30
per cent, and with maintenance of health, strength and vigor equal, if
not superior, to that which the subject has ever experienced.


_Wednesday, June 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Champagne wafer 21.5 grams, tea 146 grams, sugar 15 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 67.4 grams, butter 15.1 grams, beefsteak 55.5 grams, potato
128 grams, asparagus 103.5 grams, tea 146 grams, sugar 15 grams, banana
83.5 grams.

Supper.—Bread 15.7 grams, butter 11.8 grams, banana and nuts 106 grams,
crullers 90.2 grams, coffee 145 grams, sugar 15 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Champagne wafer               21.5   ×     0.64     =    0.138 gram.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.015    =    0.022
  Sugar         15 + 15 + 15 =  45.0   ×     0.000    =    0.000
  Bread          67.4 + 15.7 =  83.1   ×     1.46     =    1.212
  Butter         15.1 + 11.8 =  26.9   ×     0.10     =    0.027
  Banana                        83.5   ×     0.28     =    0.192
  Beefsteak                     55.5   ×     4.72     =    2.620
  Potato                       128.0   ×     0.32     =    0.410
  Asparagus                    103.5   ×     0.35     =    0.362
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.033    =    0.048
  Crullers                      90.2   ×     1.04     =    0.938
  Banana and nuts              106.0   ×     0.69     =    0.731
  Coffee                       145.0   ×     0.060    =    0.087
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.787 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.960

  Fuel value of the food      1913 calories.


_Thursday, June 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 30 grams, tea 146 grams, sugar 15 grams.

Dinner.—Clam chowder 270.5 grams, bread 64 grams, butter 14.5 grams,
lobster 36.5 grams, Saratoga chips 15 grams, caramel custard 79 grams,
tea 146 grams, sugar 15 grams.

Supper.—Bread 35.2 grams, butter 13.8 grams, pineapple 148.7 grams,
crullers 84.8 grams, tea 140 grams, sugar 15 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         30.0   ×     1.46     =    0.438 gram.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.045    =    0.066
  Sugar         15 + 15 + 15 =  45.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread            64 + 35.2 =  99.2   ×     1.44     =    1.428
  Butter         14.5 + 13.8 =  28.3   ×     0.10     =    0.028
  Clam chowder                 270.5   ×     0.34     =    0.920
  Lobster                       36.5   ×     3.73     =    1.361
  Saratoga chips                15.0   ×     0.97     =    0.146
  Caramel custard               79.0   ×     0.77     =    0.608
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.036    =    0.053
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.036    =    0.050
  Pineapple                    148.7   ×     0.054    =    0.080
  Crullers                      84.8   ×     1.04     =    0.882
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.060 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.810

  Fuel value of the food      1921 calories.


_Friday, June 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 31 grams, tea 146 grams.

Dinner.—Fried ham 61 grams, asparagus 124.2 grams, baked potato 85
grams, bread 29 grams, butter 23.5 grams, tea 140 grams, sugar 15 grams,
pineapple 74.8 grams.

Supper.—Bread 34 grams, butter 17.8 grams, pineapple 158.5 grams, tomato
132.5 grams, cup cake 121 grams, tea 140 grams, sugar 15 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread         31 + 20 + 34 =  94.0   ×     1.44     =    1.354 grams.
  Tea                          146.0   ×     0.039    =    0.057
  Fried ham                     61.0   ×     4.90     =    2.989
  Asparagus                    124.2   ×     0.50     =    0.621
  Baked potato                  85.0   ×     0.55     =    0.468
  Butter         23.5 + 17.8 =  41.3   ×     0.10     =    0.041
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.027    =    0.038
  Sugar              15 + 15 =  30.0   ×     0.000    =    0.000
  Pineapple     74.8 + 158.5 = 233.3   ×     0.065    =    0.152
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.054    =    0.076
  Tomato                       132.5   ×     0.150    =    0.199
  Cup cake                     121.0   ×     0.85     =    1.029
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.024 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.300

  Fuel value of the food      2011 calories.


_Saturday, June 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 32 grams, tea 140 grams.

Dinner.—Hash 133 grams, peas 151.5 grams, bread 61.4 grams, butter 16.1
grams, custard 150 grams, sugar 15 grams, tea 140 grams.

Supper.—Bread 62.5 grams, butter 17 grams, tea 140 grams, sugar 15 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         32.0   ×     1.44     =    0.461 gram.
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.021    =    0.029
  Hash                         133.0   ×     1.50     =    1.995
  Peas                         151.5   ×     1.04     =    1.576
  Bread          61.4 + 62.5 = 123.9   ×     1.47     =    1.821
  Butter           16.1 + 17 =  33.1   ×     0.10     =    0.033
  Custard                      150.0   ×     0.78     =    1.170
  Sugar              15 + 15 =  30.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.033    =    0.046
  Tea                          140.0   ×     0.030    =    0.042
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.173 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.780

  Fuel value of the food      1297 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Underhill._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  June 1      6.787 grams.    5.96 grams.    10 grams.
       2      6.060           5.81           10
       3      7.024           7.30           25
       4      7.173           6.78            6
             ------          ------         ------
                                             51     grams contain 5.81 % N.
             27.044          25.85      +     2.963 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             27.044 grams nitrogen.   28.813 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for four days   =  -1.760 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.442 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      1785.
  Nitrogen per day      6.73 grams.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Arthur L. Dean, Instructor in Plant Physiology in the Sheffield
Scientific School, twenty-five years of age, and weighing 64 kilos,
likewise became a subject of study in this investigation. He is a man of
strong physique, and as an undergraduate student at Harvard University
trained for various athletic events. He began on the experiment October
13, 1903, and continued until April 3, 1904. From October 13th to October
27 he followed his usual dietary habits, simply reducing in some measure
the amount of food consumed. During this period of fifteen days, the
average excretion of nitrogen per day through the kidneys was about 12
grams. On the 28th of October he began to reduce in still greater measure
the amount of proteid food eaten, and gradually diminished the extent of
his proteid metabolism, although not to the same degree as the preceding
subjects. He had full freedom of choice in the character and quantity of
his diet, but his food was characterized by a predominance of vegetable
matter, with an almost complete exclusion of meat.

For a period of nearly six months, or more exactly, from October 28
to April 3, the average daily output of nitrogen through the kidneys
amounted to 8.99 grams, while the average daily output of uric acid was
0.386 gram. This daily excretion of 8.99 grams of nitrogen implies a
metabolism of 56.18 grams of proteid. This, to be sure, means a reduction
in proteid metabolism of about 50 per cent, as compared with the Voit and
other standards, but does not show an economy equal to that practised
by the preceding subjects. It is to be noted, however, in Dr. Dean’s
case, that the body-weight did not show at any time in the experiment a
tendency to diminish. In fact, all through the experiment his body-weight
was a little higher than at the beginning.


DEAN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.   13 |  63.2 | 1100  | 1017 |   10.63   |    0.323  |    2.38   |
  |        14 |       | 1050  | 1020 |    9.83   |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1390  | 1018 |   14.93   |    0.432  |    1.98   |
  |        16 |       | 1370  | 1017 |   11.26   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1350  | 1019 |   11.18   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1670  | 1017 |   11.62   |    0.490  |    2.51   |
  |        19 |  63.2 | 1075  | 1018 |   10.19   |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1260  | 1015 |    9.98   |    0.483  |    1.88   |
  |        21 |       | 1350  | 1020 |   13.04   |           |           |
  |        22 |       | 1405  | 1015 |   11.38   |    0.431  |    2.07   |
  |        23 |       | 1240  | 1020 |   11.98   |           |           |
  |        24 |       | 1200  | 1023 |   11.16   |           |           |
  |        25 |       | 1365  | 1018 |   11.97   |    0.395  |    2.02   |
  |        26 |       | 1195  | 1020 |   10.75   |           |           |
  |        27 |       | 1240  | 1021 |   11.90   |    0.477  |    1.97   |
  |        28 |       | 1704  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1105  |      |⎬   9.29   |    0.398  |    1.69   |
  |        30 |  64.5 | 1180  |      |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        31 |       |  910  |      |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  | Nov.    1 |       |  710  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1540  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1250  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1300  |      |⎬   8.54   |    0.354  |    1.65   |
  |         5 |       |  975  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1150  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  64.6 | 1192  | 1025 |   10.86   |    0.493  |           |
  |         9 |       |  845  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1255  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1245  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1540  |      |⎬   8.84   |    0.368  |    1.85   |
  |        13 |       |  940  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1300  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1065  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  64.5 | 1165  |      |⎫   9.45   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  910  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  840  |      |   10.59   |    0.444  |           |
  |        19 |       | 1720  | 1012 |   10.32   |    0.331  |    1.95   |
  |        20 |       |  640  | 1022 |    8.60   |    0.336  |⎫          |
  |        21 |       | 1310  | 1016 |    9.27   |    0.378  |⎬   1.75   |
  |        22 |       |  720  | 1026 |    8.42   |    0.415  |⎭          |
  |        23 |  64.7 |  900  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |       | 1520  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       | 1095  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  710  |      |⎬   8.22   |    0.322  |    1.74   |
  |        27 |       |  700  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1140  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1200  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  820  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |       | 1335  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  64.5 |  940  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  970  |      |⎬   8.15   |    0.362  |    1.68   |
  |         4 |       | 1240  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1190  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  720  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1160  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  960  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  850  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  935  |      |⎬   9.12   |    0.342  |    2.11   |
  |        11 |       |  945  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1425  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  64.3 | 1065  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  770  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  790  |      |⎭   9.08   |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1230  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        31 |  66.1 | 1525  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |       | 1010  | 1021 |⎬   8.60   |    0.375  |    1.80   |
  |         2 |       | 1270  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1230  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  820  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1425  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1100  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1025  | 1021 |⎬   8.42   |    0.338  |    1.76   |
  |         8 |       |  760  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1450  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  65.8 | 1410  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1030  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        12 |  65.0 |  830  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  790  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1070  | 1020 |⎬   8.51   |    0.428  |           |
  |        15 |       | 1300  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  925  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1100  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  850  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |       | 1120  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1005  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       | 1270  | 1020 |⎬   8.23   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  980  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  650  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  980  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  65.5 | 1000  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  940  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       | 1350  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  840  |      |⎬   8.85   |    0.395  |    1.67   |
  |        29 |       |  675  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       |  740  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       | 1160  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       |  700  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  860  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  925  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  590  |      |⎬   8.22   |    0.381  |    1.19   |
  |         5 |       |  835  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  935  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  930  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1035  | 1017 |    9.00   |           |           |
  |         9 |  64.1 |  800  | 1027 |    8.64   |    0.432  |           |
  |        10 |       |  940  | 1020 |    8.29   |    0.314  |           |
  |        11 |       |  720  | 1030 |    8.55   |    0.364  |           |
  |        12 |       |  860  | 1023 |    9.93   |    0.348  |           |
  |        13 |       |  980  | 1022 |    8.87   |    0.379  |           |
  |        14 |  63.9 | 1285  | 1022 |    8.33   |    0.385  |           |
  |        15 |       |  910  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |       | 1210  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1455  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1000  | 1022 |⎬   9.30   |    0.301  |           |
  |        19 |       | 1420  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1050  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  64.5 | 1365  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  765  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |       | 1070  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       | 1080  |      |⎬   9.685  |    0.423  |           |
  |        25 |       | 1495  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  970  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  750  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  725  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       | 1100  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  990  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1180  |      |⎬  10.31   |    0.410  |           |
  |         4 |       | 1100  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1010  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  970  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  790  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  64.4 |  670  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  840  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1110  |      |⎬   8.99   |    0.433  |           |
  |        11 |       | 1090  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  755  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1220  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  745  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1030  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       | 1040  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1080  |      |⎬   8.24   |    0.368  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1390  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  795  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  64.0 |  840  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  720  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  970  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       | 1200  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  845  |      |⎬   9.26   |    0.545  |           |
  |        25 |       | 1000  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1180  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       | 1750  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  820  |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  710  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1100  |      |⎬   9.59   |    0.409  |           |
  |        31 |       |  770  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       | 1250  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  885  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  |         3 |  65.0 |  630  |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 28, 1903    | 1035  | 1021 |    8.99   |    0.386  |    1.73   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

On February 9, a nitrogen balance was attempted, when for a period of six
days a careful comparison of intake and output of nitrogen was made. The
results show that while during this period of six days 52.999 grams of
nitrogen were ingested, there was an output through the urine and fæces
of 61.13 grams of nitrogen, thus indicating a minus balance for this
period of 1.355 grams of nitrogen per day. The average daily intake of
nitrogen was 8.83 grams. The average daily output of nitrogen through
the kidneys was 8.77 grams, being 0.22 gram less than the average daily
excretion through the kidneys for the six months’ period. The fuel value
of the food for this period averaged 2529 calories per day. The nitrogen
balance, however, is so strikingly a minus balance that we are forced to
conclude the above quantities of food were not quite sufficient to meet
the needs of the body under the then existing conditions. Still, the fact
that the body-weight during the entire period of six months showed no
tendency downward implies that during this longer period the body must
have been essentially in nitrogen equilibrium, under conditions whereby
there was a metabolism of only 56 grams of proteid per day. As before
stated, this means a physiological economy, as contrasted with existing
standards, of about 50 per cent in proteid food. So far as was to be
seen, the bodily strength and vigor of the subject, like his body-weight,
were fully maintained under the restricted diet, but, for some reason, he
did not apparently take as kindly to a reduction of proteid food, and did
not accomplish so great a lowering in the rate of proteid metabolism.

Following are the data of the balance experiment:


_Tuesday, February 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 210 grams, bread 38.5 grams, oatmeal 127 grams, cream
92 grams, sugar 20 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 63.5 grams, butter 12.5 grams, potato 155 grams, consommé
150 grams, stewed tomato 109 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 20 grams,
pudding 85 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 17.5 grams, potato 177 grams, bread 39.1 grams, butter
12 grams, string beans 110 grams, apple pie 237.6 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.10     =    0.210 grams.
  Bread   38.5 + 63.5 + 39.1 = 141.1   ×     1.36     =    1.918
  Oatmeal                      127.0   ×     0.64     =    0.812
  Cream                         92.0   ×     0.40     =    0.368
  Butter           12.5 + 12 =  24.5   ×     0.088    =    0.021
  Potato                       155.0   ×     0.28     =    0.434
  Consommé                     150.0   ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Tomato                       109.0   ×     0.19     =    0.207
  Sugar              20 + 20 =  40.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Pudding                       85.0   ×     0.69     =    0.586
  Roast beef                    17.5   ×     2.64     =    0.462
  Potato                       177.0   ×     0.36     =    0.637
  String beans                 110.0   ×     0.26     =    0.286
  Apple pie                    237.6   ×     0.49     =    1.164
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.099    =    0.208
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.883 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.640

  Fuel value of the food      2576 calories.


_Wednesday, February 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 210 grams, bread 31.8 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 40
grams, oatmeal 155 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 77 grams, butter 14.5 grams, apple fritters 193.5 grams,
coffee 210 grams, sugar 20 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 82 grams, butter 20 grams, cranberries 150 grams, baked
beans 150 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 32 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.12     =    0.252 grams.
  Bread       31.8 + 77 + 82 = 190.8   ×     1.65     =    3.148
  Cream                         50.0   ×     0.47     =    0.235
  Sugar         40 + 20 + 32 =  92.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Oatmeal                      155.0   ×     0.60     =    0.930
  Butter           14.5 + 20 =  34.5   ×     0.088    =    0.030
  Fritters                     193.5   ×     0.45     =    0.870
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Cranberries                  150.0   ×     0.04     =    0.060
  Baked beans                  150.0   ×     1.40     =    2.100
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.087 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.290

  Fuel value of the food      2145 calories.


_Thursday, February 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Bread 49 grams, oatmeal 185.7 grams, cream 64 grams, coffee
210 grams, sugar 35 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 111.8 grams, butter 40.5 grams, sweet potato 287 grams,
peach preserve 109.3 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato purée 99 grams, bread 94.5 grams, butter 21.5 grams, beans
138 grams, lemon pie 155 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread    49 + 111.8 + 94.5 = 255.3   ×     1.75     =    4.467 grams.
  Oatmeal                      185.7   ×     0.40     =    0.742
  Cream                         64.0   ×     0.49     =    0.313
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.096    =    0.201
  Sugar              35 + 21 =  56.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter         40.5 + 21.5 =  62.0   ×     0.088    =    0.054
  Sweet potato                 287.0   ×     0.31     =    0.889
  Peach preserve               109.3   ×     0.09     =    0.098
  Tomato purée                  99.0   ×     0.33     =    0.326
  Beans                        138.0   ×     1.30     =    1.794
  Lemon pie                    155.0   ×     0.61     =    0.945
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.13     =    0.273
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.102 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.550

  Fuel value of the food      2854 calories.


_Friday, February 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 192.3 grams, cream 75.5 grams, bread 41.6 grams,
coffee 210 grams, sugar 20 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 64.1 grams, butter 14 grams, fish cakes 60 grams, potato 200
grams, custard 107.3 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 60 grams, butter 15 grams, lima beans 100 grams, potato 150
grams, apple dumpling 259 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      192.3   ×     0.52     =    0.999 grams.
  Cream                         75.5   ×     0.50     =    0.377
  Bread     41.6 + 64.1 + 60 = 165.7   ×     1.71     =    2.833
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Sugar                         20.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter             14 + 15 =  29.0   ×     0.088    =    0.025
  Fish cakes                    60.0   ×     1.57     =    0.942
  Potato                       200.0   ×     0.41     =    0.820
  Custard                      107.3   ×     0.83     =    0.890
  Lima beans                   100.0   ×     0.90     =    0.900
  Potato                       150.0   ×     0.37     =    0.555
  Apple dumpling               259.0   ×     0.72     =    1.864
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.436 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.930

  Fuel value of the food      2363 calories.


_Saturday, February 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 150 grams, cream 42 grams, sugar 31 grams, bread 31
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 36 grams, sweet potato 222 grams, butter 17 grams, quince
preserve 81.5 grams, apple turnover 154.5 grains.

Dinner.—Potato 175 grams, bread 62 grams, butter 15 grams, peas 100
grams, apple pie 177 grams, coffee 210 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      150.0   ×     0.43     =    0.645 grams.
  Cream                         42.0   ×     0.50     =    0.210
  Sugar              31 + 21 =  52.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread         31 + 36 + 62 = 129.0   ×     1.64     =    2.115
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Sweet potato                 222.0   ×     0.37     =    0.821
  Butter             17 + 15 =  32.0   ×     0.088    =    0.028
  Quince preserve               81.5   ×     0.047    =    0.038
  Apple turnover               154.5   ×     0.96     =    1.483
  Potato                       175.0   ×     0.37     =    0.647
  Peas                         100.0   ×     0.96     =    0.960
  Apple pie                    177.0   ×     0.43     =    0.761
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.170 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.870

  Fuel value of the food      2606 calories.


_Sunday, February 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Quaker oats 150 grams, bread 42.5 grams, coffee 210 grams,
sugar 31 grams, banana 88.2 grams, cream 87.6 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 87.3 grams, butter 28.7 grams, potato 210 grams, apple sauce
116.5 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 51.5 grams, butter 12.2 grams, sugar 21 grams, potato 150
grams, succotash 100 grams, chocolate cake 122.5 grams, vanilla ice 110.7
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Quaker oats                  150.0   ×     0.46     =    0.690 grams.
  Bread   42.5 + 87.3 + 51.5 = 181.3   ×     1.75     =    3.172
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Sugar              31 + 21 =  52.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Banana                        88.2   ×     0.20     =    0.176
  Cream                         87.6   ×     0.50     =    0.438
  Butter         28.7 + 12.2 =  40.9   ×     0.088    =    0.035
  Potato                       210.0   ×     0.41     =    0.861
  Apple sauce                  116.5   ×     0.029    =    0.033
  Potato                       150.0   ×     0.37     =    0.555
  Succotash                    100.0   ×     0.57     =    0.570
  Chocolate cake               122.5   ×     0.75     =    0.918
  Vanilla ice                  110.7   ×     0.58     =    0.642
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.321 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.330

  Fuel value of the food      2635 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Dean._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 9      7.883 grams.    8.64 grams.
      10      8.087           8.29
      11     10.102           8.55           18 grams.
      12     10.436           9.93           18
      13      8.170           8.87           80
      14      8.321           8.33           58
             ------          ------         ------
                                            174     grams contain 4.90% N.
             52.999          52.61      +     8.52  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             52.999 grams nitrogen.   61.13 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -8.131 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.355 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2529.
  Nitrogen per day      8.83 grams.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. George M. Beers, Clerk in the Treasurer’s office of the Sheffield
Scientific School, became a subject of study in January, 1903. Mr. Beers
was thirty-eight years of age, and had always enjoyed fairly good health,
although of somewhat frail physique. His occupation has always been
indoor work as accountant, etc. His body-weight was 61 kilos.

Mr. Beers came to the writer for advice as to possible ways of improving
his general health, and when it was learned that he was in the habit
of eating large amounts of meat, the suggestion was made to him that
it might be wise to ascertain the effect of a diminished quantity of
proteid food, and as a result of this advice Mr. Beers began to cut down
the amount of meat consumed daily. The effect of this abstention from
meat was so noticeable that voluntarily all meat was withdrawn from his
diet. With this change in dietary habits there came about a loss of
body-weight, which, however, was soon regained.

Commencing with May 14, 1903, the amount of nitrogen excreted from the
kidneys was determined from time to time, but not each day, since it was
very soon found that Mr. Beers showed great regularity in his dietary
habits, and a corresponding regularity in the composition of the output.
This regularity was due in large measure to the fact that the subject
became, for the time at least, practically a vegetarian. The beneficial
effects noted in his own experience with abstention from meat led to
his voluntarily excluding it from his daily diet, so that from January,
1903, to June, 1904, the subject practically tasted meat, fish, or eggs
on only four occasions, namely, the 26th day of November, 1903, May 19,
20, and 21, 1904. With this limitation to a vegetable diet and with
regular methods of living, the nitrogenous waste material was found to
be constant within very narrow limits. Emphasis, however, should be laid
upon the fact that there was no prescription of diet, but perfect freedom
of choice, although this choice was limited wholly to vegetable and
cereal foods.

The accompanying tables give the output of nitrogen, uric acid, etc.,
through the kidneys for various dates between May 14, 1903, and June 15,
1904. Scrutiny of these tables shows that the average daily output of
nitrogen, so far as the data show, amounted to 8.58 grams. This indicates
an average daily metabolism of 53.62 grams of proteid material.

Likewise noticeable is the perfectly steady body-weight throughout this
whole period of time, while the low level of 8.5 grams of metabolized
nitrogen testifies to an economy in the use of proteid food, which
indicates that in this subject at least the needs of the body for proteid
food could easily be met by an amount equal to about one-half that called
for by the Voit and similar standard dietaries.


BEERS.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | May    14 |  61.1 |  940  | 1020 |    8.23   |    0.330  |    1.82   |
  | Oct.    8 |       |  920  | 1014 |    6.40   |    0.374  |    1.47   |
  |        13 |  61.1 |  740  | 1026 |    8.74   |    0.375  |    1.61   |
  |        14 |       |  780  | 1024 |    8.37   |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  970  | 1018 |    8.90   |    0.374  |    1.04   |
  |        16 |       | 1365  | 1014 |    9.09   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1295  | 1013 |    8.86   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1400  | 1013 |    7.56   |    0.347  |    1.57   |
  |        20 |  61.1 | 1304  | 1014 |    8.14   |    0.328  |    1.44   |
  |        21 |       | 1510  | 1012 |    7.97   |           |           |
  |        22 |       | 1450  | 1012 |    8.26   |    0.338  |    1.95   |
  |        23 |       | 1130  | 1013 |    7.86   |           |           |
  |        24 |       | 1060  | 1019 |    8.46   |           |           |
  |        25 |       | 1275  | 1015 |    8.25   |    0.375  |    1.74   |
  |        26 |       | 1390  | 1014 |    7.34   |           |           |
  |        27 |  61.4 | 1000  | 1020 |    7.50   |    0.344  |    1.38   |
  | Nov.   21 |  61.4 |  670  | 1025 |    8.72   |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  925  | 1017 |    8.21   |    0.335  |    1.28   |
  |        23 |       |  585  | 1027 |    8.36   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  885  | 1023 |    8.02   |    0.354  |           |
  |        25 |       |  800  | 1026 |    7.92   |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1095  | 1020 |   10.77*  |    0.364  |    1.53   |
  | Jan.    5 |  61.4 | 1110  | 1018 |    8.99   |    0.324  |           |
  |         7 |       |  650  | 1024 |    8.15   |    0.278  |    1.29   |
  |         8 |       |  710  | 1020 |    7.88   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  910  | 1023 |    8.73   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  890  | 1020 |    8.01   |    0.327  |    1.21   |
  |        11 |       |  875  | 1017 |    7.51   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  480  | 1029 |    6.77   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  580  | 1023 |    8.00   |    0.398  |           |
  |        14 |       |  765  | 1022 |    8.35   |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1360  | 1017 |    9.22   |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.4 |  990  | 1020 |    8.79   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  835  | 1024 |    8.47   |    0.354  |           |
  |        18 |       |  780  | 1020 |    8.05   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  790  | 1022 |    8.10   |    0.382  |           |
  | Feb.    9 |       |  860  | 1023 |    8.46   |    0.355  |           |
  |        10 |  61.4 |  850  | 1024 |    8.57   |    0.226  |           |
  |        11 |  61.4 |  750  | 1022 |    8.55   |    0.352  |           |
  |        12 |  61.4 |  595  | 1026 |    8.46   |    0.368  |           |
  |        13 |  61.4 |  640  | 1027 |    8.75   |    0.425  |           |
  |        14 |  60.8 |  730  | 1025 |    8.28   |    0.353  |           |
  | Apr.   18 |  61.5 |  610  | 1025 |    7.69   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  61.5 |  870  | 1020 |    9.87   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  61.5 |  985  | 1019 |    8.87   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  61.5 |  795  | 1024 |    8.25   |⎬   0.365  |           |
  |        22 |  61.5 | 1090  | 1019 |    9.02   |⎪   daily  |           |
  |        23 |  61.5 |  970  | 1022 |    8.44   |⎪  average |           |
  |        24 |  61.5 |  810  | 1021 |    7.30   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  61.5 |  850  | 1018 |    6.94   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  61.5 |  620  | 1024 |    7.11   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       |  450  | 1027 |    8.58   |⎬   0.691  |           |
  |        29 |       |  650  | 1025 |    9.52   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1260  | 1018 |   10.20   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       | 1060  | 1017 |    8.71   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       |  610  | 1025 |    8.16   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  650  | 1022 |    8.70   |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.5 |  870  | 1019 |    8.51   |           |           |
  |         5 |  61.3 |  610  | 1025 |    8.31   |           |           |
  |         6 |  61.3 |  655  | 1026 |    8.72   |⎫          |           |
  |         7 |       |  680  | 1025 |    8.53   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |  60.8 |  490  | 1026 |    7.00   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  61.3 |  550  | 1026 |    7.59   |⎬   0.356  |           |
  |        10 |       |  705  | 1025 |    7.78   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       |  730  | 1025 |    8.28   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |       |  800  | 1025 |    9.36   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       |  715  | 1022 |    7.29   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  990  | 1018 |    6.95   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  715  | 1026 |    7.81   |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  845  | 1926 |   10.45†  |           |           |
  |        20 |  61.5 | 1170  | 1020 |   11.02†  |           |           |
  |        21 |  61.2 |  795  | 1025 |   10.02†  |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  835  | 1020 |    8.42   |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  695  | 1025 |    9.42   |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  660  | 1025 |    9.82   |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  700  | 1025 |    9.91   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  620  | 1026 |    8.59   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  665  | 1026 |    9.53   |⎬   0.434  |           |
  |        28 |  61.2 |  960  | 1021 |   10.31   |⎪          |           |
  |        29 |       |  790  | 1023 |    9.24   |⎭          |           |
  |        31 |       |  930  | 1025 |   10.44   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       |  855  | 1018 |    8.76   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  850  | 1023 |    8.01   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  860  | 1020 |    9.24   |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.4 | 1145  | 1021 |   10.17   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  590  | 1024 |    7.47   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  510  | 1029 |    7.53   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  620  | 1027 |    8.26   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  985  | 1020 |    8.45   |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1220  | 1020 |    8.49   |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1220  | 1017 |    8.28   |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1710  | 1013 |    8.82   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  925  | 1017 |    7.11   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  920  | 1020 |    8.01   |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1090  | 1015 |    8.64   |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.5 |  915  | 1022 |    8.68   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average      |  880  | 1021 |    8.58   |    0.365  |    1.49   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

  [*] Turkey eaten on this day.

  [†] On these three days, meat, fish, and eggs were eaten.

On February 9, a nitrogen balance was attempted covering a period of six
days, in which there was an exact comparison of the nitrogen income and
output. In this balance period it will be observed that the total amount
of nitrogen taken in for the six days was 53.108 grams, while the output
of nitrogen through the kidneys amounted to 51.07 grams. The nitrogen
excreted through the fæces, however, brought the total nitrogen output
up to 58.83 grams, thus making a minus balance for the six days of 5.722
grams of nitrogen. During this period the average fuel value of the food
per day was 2168 calories. The average daily output of metabolized
nitrogen during the period was 8.5 grams, practically identical with the
average daily excretion of nitrogen through the kidneys for the entire
year, so far as determined. We have here a distinct minus balance, due
either to an insufficient amount of proteid food, or an insufficient fuel
value.


_Tuesday, February 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 237.5 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 60
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Macaroni 142 grams, cheese 10.5 grams, bread 71.5 grams, sweet
potato 119.5 grams, milk 250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 80.7 grams, butter 20 grams, mashed potato 176 grams,
string beans 77.5 grams, apple pie 82 grams, milk 250 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      237.5   ×     0.64     =    1.520 grams.
  Butter             10 + 20 =  30.0   ×     0.088    =    0.026
  Sugar                         35.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk        60 + 250 + 250 = 560.0   ×     0.52     =    2.912
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.10     =    0.210
  Macaroni                     142.0   ×     0.87     =    1.235
  Cheese                        10.5   ×     4.45     =    0.467
  Bread          71.5 + 80.7 = 152.2   ×     1.36     =    2.069
  Sweet potato                 119.5   ×     0.28     =    0.334
  Mashed potato                176.0   ×     0.36     =    0.633
  String beans                  77.5   ×     0.26     =    0.201
  Apple pie                     82.0   ×     0.49     =    0.401
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.008 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.460

  Fuel value of the food      2094 calories.


_Wednesday, February 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 299 grams, butter 19 grams, cream 71 grams, sugar 41
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 79 grams, butter 11 grams, boiled potato 155.2 grams, milk
250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 56 grams, butter 12 grams, baked beans 100 grams, cranberry
sauce 150 grams, sugar 21 grams, coffee 210 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                       99.0   ×     0.60     =    1.794 grams.
  Butter        19 + 11 + 12 =  42.0   ×     0.088    =    0.036
  Cream                         71.0   ×     0.47     =    0.333
  Sugar              41 + 21 =  62.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee (breakfast)           210.0   ×     0.12     =    0.252
  Bread              79 + 56 = 135.0   ×     1.65     =    2.227
  Boiled potato                155.2   ×     0.39     =    0.605
  Milk                         250.0   ×     0.55     =    1.375
  Baked beans                  100.0   ×     1.40     =    1.400
  Cranberry sauce              150.0   ×     0.04     =    0.060
  Coffee (dinner)              210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.313 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.570

  Fuel value of the food      1723 calories.


_Thursday, February 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 300 grams, cream 71 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 41
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Butter 14 grams, bread 126 grams, boiled sweet potato 205 grams,
milk 250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 22 grams, butter 7.5 grams, mashed potato 100 grams, sugar
14 grams, milk 250 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      300.0   ×     0.40     =    1.200 grams.
  Cream                         71.0   ×     0.49     =    0.347
  Butter       10 + 14 + 7.5 =  31.5   ×     0.088    =    0.027
  Sugar              41 + 14 =  55.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.096    =    0.201
  Bread             126 + 22 = 148.0   ×     1.75     =    2.590
  Sweet potato                 205.0   ×     0.31     =    0.635
  Milk             250 + 250 = 500.0   ×     0.51     =    2.550
  Mashed potato                100.0   ×     0.36     =    0.360
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.910 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.550

  Fuel value of the food      1979 calories.


_Friday, February 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 300 grams, butter 10 grams, cream 74 grams, sugar 41
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 86 grams, butter 9 grams, potato 200 grams, sugar 14 grams,
milk 250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 63 grams, butter 14 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, apple
dumpling 136 grams, milk 250 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      300     ×     0.52     =    1.560 grams.
  Butter         10 + 9 + 14 =  33     ×     0.088    =    0.029
  Cream                         74     ×     0.50     =    0.370
  Sugar              41 + 14 =  55     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee                       210     ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Bread              86 + 63 = 149     ×     1.71     =    2.547
  Potato                       200     ×     0.41     =    0.820
  Milk             250 + 250 = 500     ×     0.48     =    2.400
  Mashed potato                150     ×     0.37     =    0.555
  Apple dumpling               136     ×     0.72     =    0.979
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.491 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.460

  Fuel value of the food      2209 calories.


_Saturday, February 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 300 grams, butter 12 grams, cream 70 grams, sugar 41
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 80 grams, butter 11 grams, sweet potato 132 grams, sugar 20
grams, milk 250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 59.5 grams, mashed potato 175 grams, butter 11 grams, sugar
20 grams, apple pie 141 grams, milk 250 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      300.0   ×     0.43     =    1.290 grams.
  Butter        12 + 11 + 11 =  34.0   ×     0.088    =    0.029
  Cream                         70.0   ×     0.50     =    0.350
  Sugar         41 + 20 + 20 =  81.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Bread            80 + 59.5 = 139.5   ×     1.64     =    2.287
  Sweet potato                 132.0   ×     0.37     =    0.488
  Milk             250 + 250 = 500.0   ×     0.54     =    2.700
  Mashed potato                175.0   ×     0.37     =    0.647
  Apple pie                    141.0   ×     0.43     =    0.606
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.628 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.750

  Fuel value of the food      2395 calories.


_Sunday, February 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 300 grams, butter 16 grams, cream 70 grams, sugar 41
grams, coffee 210 grams.

Lunch.—Baked potato 171 grams, bread 72 grams, butter 15 grams, sugar 21
grams, apple sauce 38 grams, milk 250 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 35.5 grams, butter 13.5 grams, mashed potato 180 grams,
sugar 20 grams, chocolate cake 111 grams, ice cream 115 grams, milk 250
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      300.0   ×     0.46     =    1.380 grams.
  Butter      16 + 15 + 13.5 =  44.5   ×     0.088    =    0.039
  Cream                         70.0   ×     0.50     =    0.350
  Sugar         41 + 21 + 20 =  82.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee                       210.0   ×     0.11     =    0.231
  Baked potato                 171.0   ×     0.41     =    0.701
  Bread            72 + 35.5 = 107.5   ×     1.75     =    1.881
  Apple sauce                   38.0   ×     0.029    =    0.011
  Milk             250 + 250 = 500.0   ×     0.40     =    2.000
  Mashed potato                180.0   ×     0.37     =    0.666
  Chocolate cake               111.0   ×     0.75     =    0.832
  Ice cream                    115.0   ×     0.58     =    0.667
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.758 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.280

  Fuel value of the food      2610 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Beers._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 9     10.008 grams.    8.46 grams.
      10      8.313           8.57           44.7 grams.
      11      7.910           8.55           19.0
      12      9.491           8.46           30.0
      13      8.628           8.75           28.0
      14      8.758           8.28            5.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            126.7   grams contain 6.13% N.
             53.108          51.07      +     7.76  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             53.108 grams nitrogen.   58.83 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -5.722 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.953 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2168.
  Nitrogen per day      8.85 grams.

On May 6, a second nitrogen balance was attempted covering a period of
seven days, in which, as before, there was an exact comparison of the
income and output of nitrogen. In this period of seven days, as shown
in the accompanying tables, the fuel value of the food was essentially
the same as in the preceding period, but the amount of proteid food
was increased to an average intake of 10.10 grams per day. Under these
conditions there was a distinct plus balance for the seven days amounting
to 2.425 grams, thus showing that with this quantity of nitrogenous food
the body was laying on nitrogen to the extent of 0.346 gram per day. The
average daily amount of nitrogen metabolized during this period was only
8.18 grams, being quite noticeably below the average daily amount for the
year. In other words, the results of this balance period show that with a
consumption of food sufficient to yield about 2200 calories per day, the
body of this subject needed to metabolize only 8.25 grams of nitrogen per
day to more than maintain nitrogen equilibrium. Following are the tables
of results:


_Friday, May 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 345 grams, butter 7 grams, sugar 30 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 180 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 67 grams, potato 71 grams, corn 179 grams, pie 133 grams,
milk 200 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 75 grams, butter 11 grams, potato 106 grams, cake 52
grams, apricots 75 grams, milk 230 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      345     ×     0.40     =    1.380 grams.
  Butter              7 + 11 =  18     ×     0.11     =    0.020
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 200 + 230 = 530     ×     0.54     =    2.862
  Coffee                       180     ×     0.14     =    0.252
  Bread                         67     ×     1.39     =    0.931
  Potato (dinner)               71     ×     0.52     =    0.369
  Corn                         179     ×     0.44     =    0.788
  Pie                          133     ×     0.54     =    0.718
  Biscuit                       75     ×     1.21     =    0.908
  Potato (supper)              106     ×     0.36     =    0.382
  Cake                          52     ×     0.90     =    0.468
  Apricots                      75     ×     0.21     =    0.158
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.236 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.720

  Fuel value of the food      2080 calories.


_Saturday, May 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 382 grams, milk 100 grams, coffee 185 grams, butter 10
grams, sugar 30 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 93 grams, potato 67 grams, rice pudding 141 grams, milk 200
grams.

Supper.—Bread 67 grams, butter 13 grams, potato salad 122 grams, milk 240
grams, coffee 120 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      382     ×     0.41     =    1.566 grams.
  Milk       100 + 200 + 240 = 540     ×     0.54     =    2.916
  Coffee (breakfast)           185     ×     0.13     =    0.241
  Butter             10 + 13 =  23     ×     0.11     =    0.025
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread              93 + 67 = 160     ×     1.33     =    2.128
  Potato                        67     ×     0.56     =    0.375
  Rice pudding                 141     ×     0.76     =    1.072
  Potato salad                 122     ×     0.35     =    0.427
  Coffee (supper)              120     ×     0.15     =    0.180
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.930 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.530

  Fuel value of the food      1714 calories.


_Sunday, May 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 386 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 185 grams.

Dinner.—Rice and chicken gravy 178 grams, boiled onions 136 grams,
chocolate pudding 141 grams, milk 150 grams.

Supper.—Potato salad 73 grams, bread 28 grams, chocolate cake 104 grams,
milk 220 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      386     ×     0.35     =    1.351 grams.
  Butter                        10     ×     0.11     =    0.011
  Sugar                         35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 150 + 220 = 470     ×     0.55     =    2.585
  Coffee                       185     ×     0.11     =    0.204
  Rice and chicken gravy       178     ×     0.47     =    0.837
  Onions                       136     ×     0.25     =    0.340
  Chocolate pudding            141     ×     1.03     =    1.452
  Potato salad                  73     ×     0.35     =    0.256
  Bread                         28     ×     1.33     =    0.372
  Chocolate cake               104     ×     0.95     =    0.988
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.396 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.000

  Fuel value of the food      1995 calories.


_Monday, May 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 330 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 185 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 73 grams, fried potato 125 grams, boiled onions 118 grams,
macaroni and cheese 128 grams, apple pie 110 grams, milk 200 grams.

Supper.—Bread 82 grams, boiled potato 130 grams, butter 12 grams,
chocolate cake 114 grams, milk 245 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      330     ×     0.44     =    1.452 grams.
  Butter             12 + 10 =  22     ×     0.11     =    0.024
  Sugar                         35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 200 + 245 = 545     ×     0.58     =    3.161
  Coffee                       185     ×     0.099    =    0.183
  Bread              73 + 82 = 155     ×     1.33     =    2.062
  Fried potato                 125     ×     0.48     =    0.600
  Onions                       118     ×     0.25     =    0.295
  Macaroni and cheese          128     ×     1.53     =    1.958
  Apple pie                    110     ×     0.55     =    0.605
  Boiled potato                130     ×     0.30     =    0.390
  Chocolate cake               114     ×     0.95     =    1.083
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      11.813 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.590

  Fuel value of the food      2620 calories.


_Tuesday, May 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 357 grams, butter 11 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 185 grams.

Dinner.—Soda biscuit 68 grams, boiled potato 160 grams, butter 20 grams,
stewed tomato 103 grams, custard pie 103 grams, milk 200 grams.

Supper.—Soda biscuit 81 grams, butter 14 grams, stewed potato 97 grams,
chocolate cake 66 grams, milk 200 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      357     ×     0.42     =    1.499 grams.
  Butter        11 + 20 + 14 =  45     ×     0.11     =    0.050
  Sugar                         35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 200 + 200 = 500     ×     0.54     =    2.700
  Coffee                       185     ×     0.13     =    0.241
  Soda biscuit       68 + 81 = 149     ×     1.27     =    1.892
  Boiled potato                160     ×     0.30     =    0.480
  Stewed tomato                103     ×     0.21     =    0.216
  Custard pie                  103     ×     0.91     =    0.937
  Stewed potato                 97     ×     0.45     =    0.437
  Chocolate cake                66     ×     0.95     =    0.627
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.079 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.780

  Fuel value of the food      2190 calories.


_Wednesday, May 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 394 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 185 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 141 grams, bread 78 grams, butter 14 grams, boiled potato
101 grams, corn 128 grams, rice pudding 116 grams, milk 200 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 103 grams, butter 11 grams, corn 113 grams, cake 60
grams, milk 205 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      394     ×     0.46     =    1.812 grams.
  Butter        10 + 14 + 11 =  35     ×     0.11     =    0.039
  Sugar                         35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 200 + 205 = 505     ×     0.54     =    2.727
  Coffee                       185     ×     0.13     =    0.241
  Soup                         141     ×     0.48     =    0.677
  Bread                         78     ×     1.25     =    0.975
  Boiled potato                101     ×     0.31     =    0.313
  Corn             113 + 128 = 241     ×     0.46     =    1.109
  Rice pudding                 116     ×     0.63     =    0.731
  Biscuit                      103     ×     1.42     =    1.463
  Cake                          60     ×     0.78     =    0.468
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.555 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.280

  Fuel value of the food      2183 calories.


_Thursday, May 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 349 grams, butter 10 grams, sugar 35 grams, milk 100
grams, coffee 185 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 137 grams, fried potato 43 grams, bread 100 grams, macaroni
and cheese 122 grams, bread pudding 80 grams, milk 200 grams.

Supper.—Stewed potato 126 grams, bread 122 grams, cake 73 grams, apricots
81 grams, milk 220 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Oatmeal                      349     ×     0.41     =    1.431 grams.
  Butter                        10     ×     0.11     =    0.011
  Sugar                         35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Milk       100 + 200 + 220 = 520     ×     0.57     =    2.964
  Coffee                       185     ×     0.13     =    0.241
  Soup                         137     ×     0.48     =    0.658
  Fried potato                  43     ×     0.76     =    0.327
  Bread            100 + 122 = 222     ×     1.25     =    2.775
  Macaroni and cheese          122     ×     1.94     =    2.370
  Bread pudding                 80     ×     0.82     =    0.656
  Stewed potato                126     ×     0.43     =    0.542
  Cake                          73     ×     0.78     =    0.569
  Apricots                      81     ×     0.23     =    0.186
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      12.730 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.360

  Fuel value of the food      2283 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Beers._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 6       9.236 grams.    8.72 grams.    17.5 grams.
      7       8.930           8.53           30.5
      8       8.396           7.00           26.2
      9      11.813           7.59           27.1
     10       9.079           7.78           22.1
     11      10.555           8.28           26.0
     12      12.730           9.36           24.5
                                             12.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            186.4   grams contain 5.93% N.
             70.739          57.26      +    11.054 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             70.739 grams nitrogen.   68.314 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +2.425 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.346 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2152.
  Nitrogen per day      10.10 grams.

Here we have, as in the preceding cases, marked physiological economy of
non-nitrogenous as well as of nitrogenous food material. Further, taking
the body-weight of the subject as 61.5 kilos, and with an average daily
excretion of 8.58 grams of metabolized nitrogen, it is evident that
under the existing conditions of life and activity there was need for
the metabolism of only 0.139 gram of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight.
Doubtless, however, still greater economy was possible.

Finally, while it hardly savors of scientific accuracy to quote simple
sensations, yet it may be stated that the subject asserts a betterment
of his condition, with continuance of mental and physical vigor in such
a degree that he has persisted now for more than a year and a half in
the maintenance of these dietetic habits which are characterized by this
lowered rate of proteid metabolism. The quantity of nitrogen metabolized
daily means the breaking down of approximately 50 grams of proteid, and
it is very evident that this amount of proteid food, one-half the amount
called for by the ordinary diet, is quite sufficient to meet all of the
subject’s bodily needs, even with a total fuel value considerably below
2500 calories.


SUMMARY

Certain general conclusions seem to be justified by the results reported.
A healthy man, whose occupation is such as not to involve excessive
muscular work, but whose activity is mainly mental rather than physical,
though by no means excluding the latter, can live on a much smaller
amount of proteid or albuminous food than is usually considered essential
for life, without loss of mental or physical strength and vigor, and
with maintenance of body and nitrogen equilibrium. This means that the
ordinary professional man who leads an active and even strenuous life,
with its burden of care and responsibility, need not clog his system
and inhibit his power for work by the ingestion of any such quantities
of proteid food as the ordinary dietetic standards call for. There is
no real physiological need—that is apparent—for the adoption of such
dietetic habits as ordinarily prevail, or as are called for by the
dietary standards set by most authorities in this branch of physiology.
There is no justifiable ground for the dictum, or the assumption, that
the adult man of average body-weight needs daily 118 grams of proteid
food for the maintenance of health, strength and vigor, or that there
is need for the metabolism of at least 16 grams of nitrogen daily. If
such were the case, how could these five subjects, whose experiences
have been detailed in the foregoing pages, have maintained their
body-weight, established nitrogen equilibrium, pursued their ordinary
vocations without loss of strength and vigor, and kept in a perpetual
condition of good health, with an average daily metabolism of from 5.4
grams of nitrogen to 8.99 grams of nitrogen for periods ranging from six
to eighteen months? Surely, if 16 to 18 grams of nitrogen are a daily
requisite for the healthy adult, there should have been some sign of
nitrogen starvation during these long periods of low proteid diet, but
the sharpest scrutiny failed to find it. On the contrary, there were not
wanting signs of improved conditions of the body which could not well be
associated with anything but the changes in diet.

Let us briefly consider the main facts. The writer, of 57 kilos
body-weight, showed for nearly nine consecutive months an average daily
metabolism of 5.7 grams of nitrogen. During the last two months the
daily metabolism averaged 5.4 grams of nitrogen. As body-weight and
nitrogen equilibrium were both maintained under these conditions, it is
certainly fair to assume that the physiological needs of the body were
fully met. These figures imply a metabolism, in the first instance, of
0.1 gram of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight, while the lower figure
shows a metabolism of 0.094 gram of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight. We
may call this latter amount the minimal nitrogen requirement for this
particular individual, under which health, strength, and vigor can be
fully maintained. This lower nitrogen figure shows that the needs of
this particular individual for proteid material are met by the metabolism
of 33.75 grams of proteid per day. Hence, one-third the usually accepted
standard of proteid is quite sufficient for the wants of this particular
person, and this too with a quantity of non-nitrogenous food far below
the daily amount called for by ordinary physiological rules. A fuel value
of 2000 calories per day was fully adequate to meet the ordinary wants of
the body.

Dr. Mendel, with a body-weight of 70 kilos, showed for seven consecutive
months an average daily metabolism of 6.53 grams of nitrogen, likewise
with maintenance of health, strength, body equilibrium, and nitrogenous
equilibrium. This figure implies a nitrogen metabolism of 0.093 gram per
kilo of body-weight and shows that the wants of the body—in his case—can
be fully met by a metabolism of 40.8 grams of proteid matter daily, and
this likewise without increasing the amount of non-nitrogenous food
ingested. Indeed, a total fuel value of 2500 calories per day was quite
sufficient for all the needs of his body under the existing conditions.

Dr. Underhill, with a body-weight of 65 kilos, showed for six consecutive
months a proteid metabolism equal to 7.81 grams of nitrogen per day,
while for the last two months the daily average excretion of nitrogen was
only 6.68 grams. These figures mean respectively a nitrogen metabolism
of 0.120 and 0.102 gram of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight. Here, too,
as in the preceding cases, this lowered rate of proteid metabolism was
maintained without increasing the total fuel value of the food and with a
continuance of health and strength.

Messrs. Dean and Beers, with body-weights of 64 and 61.5 kilos
respectively, likewise kept up their health and strength for a long
period of time with a nitrogen metabolism averaging 8.99 and 8.58 grams
of nitrogen per day, _i. e._, with a metabolism of 0.140 and 0.139 gram
of nitrogen per kilo of body-weight respectively, and this with a total
fuel value in their daily food averaging not more than 2500 calories.

With this general concurrence of results, we are certainly warranted
in the assertion that the professional man can safely practise a
physiological economy in the use of proteid food equal to a saving
of one-half to two-thirds the amount called for by existing dietary
standards, and this without increasing the amount of non-nitrogenous food
consumed. Indeed, the latter class of foods can likewise be diminished
in amount without detriment to health or strength, where there is no
call for great physical exertion. Lastly, the so-called minimal proteid
requirement of the healthy man—which for this group of individuals we
may place at the low level of 0.093 to 0.130 gram of nitrogen per kilo
of body-weight—represents the real physiological needs of the system for
nitrogen, and in so far as our present data show, anything beyond this
quantity may be considered as an excess over and above what is required
for the actual physiological necessities of the body. Naturally, however,
there may be nothing detrimental in a slight excess of proteid beyond
the daily needs. That is a subject, however, to be discussed later in
connection with other results.

In view of the close agreement in the amount of nitrogen metabolized by
these different individuals per kilo of body-weight, emphasis should
be laid upon the fact that the results recorded were all obtained with
perfect freedom of choice in the matter of diet, without prescription
of any kind, so that the close concurrence in the final figures tends
to strengthen the value of the data as pointing to a certain minimal
requirement easily attainable, and fully adequate for meeting the needs
of the body.




II. EXPERIMENTS WITH VOLUNTEERS FROM THE HOSPITAL CORPS OF THE UNITED
STATES ARMY.


The original Detachment from the Hospital Corps of the United States
Army detailed to serve in this series of experiments arrived in New
Haven September 28, 1903, under the command of Dr. Wallace DeWitt, 1st
Lieutenant and assistant Surgeon of the United States Army. The detail
was composed of twenty men, of whom fourteen were privates, volunteers
for the experiment, the remainder being made up of non-commissioned
officers, cook, cook’s helper, etc. The detachment was located in
a convenient house on Vanderbilt Square belonging to the Sheffield
Scientific School, and there they lived during their six months’ stay
in New Haven under military discipline, and subject to the constant
surveillance of the commanding officer and the non-commissioned officers.

In selecting the men for the experiment particular attention was paid to
securing as great a variety of types as possible, representing different
nationalities, temperaments, etc. Naturally, among such a group of
enlisted men brought together for the purpose in view many were found
unsuited for various reasons, and were quickly exchanged for others
better adapted for the successful carrying out of the experiment. Several
quickly deserted, apparently not relishing the restrictions under which
they were compelled to live. The restriction which constituted the
greatest hardship in the eyes of several of the men was the regularity
of life insisted upon, and the consequent restraint placed upon their
movements in the city when relieved from duty. The following Statement
from Dr. DeWitt will explain the causes of removal of the men who dropped
out of the experiment during the natural sifting process of the first few
weeks and later.

                               HOSPITAL CORPS DETACHMENT U. S. ARMY,
                               332 TEMPLE ST., NEW HAVEN, CONN.,
                               March 17, 1904.

    Professor RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN, _Director Sheffield Scientific
    School_, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

    SIR,—In compliance with your verbal request concerning men of
    this detachment lost by transfer and desertion and the reasons
    therefor, I have the honor to inform you that the following men
    were lost by transfer, at my request, for the reasons set after
    their respective names:

    Private EDWARD MCDERMOTT (October 17, 1903). Mentally and
    morally unsuited.

    Private PAUL FORKEL (October 18, 1903). Physically unsuited.

    Private DAVID ACKER (October 24, 1903). Physically unsuited by
    reason of Acute Pulmonary Tuberculosis Bilateral.

    Private WILLIAM C. WITZIG (November 17, 1903). Physically
    unsuited by reason of Cardiac Irritability.

    Private PHILIP S. MYER (December 11, 1903). Physically unsuited
    by reason of very high grade of Myopia both eyes.

    Private first class CHARLES P. DAVIS (January 14, 1904).
    Physically unsuited by reason of Acute Melancholia.

    Private BARNARD BATES (February 12, 1904). Morally and mentally
    unsuited by reason of Drunkenness.

    In all these men, except Private DAVIS, the condition for which
    they were transferred was present when they reported for duty
    with the detachment.

    In the case of Private DAVIS, his condition of acute
    melancholia in my opinion was incident to the experiment,—due
    to the necessary restrictions of liberty and food, assisted by
    a natural gloomy disposition.

    The following men were lost by desertion:

    Private first class SAMUEL R. CURTIS (November 3, 1903).

    Private first class WILLIAM SMITH (November 5, 1903).

    Private SIMON PRINS (January 23, 1904).

    Private EDWIN A. RINARD (February 3, 1904).

    Of these men Private first class Smith and Private Prins
    were on duty in the kitchen and were at no time subject to
    restriction of diet and liberty. Private first class Curtis
    deserted before the experiment was well under way and can not
    be attributed to any cause arising out of the investigation.
    Private Rinard’s desertion was in my opinion due to the
    restrictions of diet and liberty incident to the experiment. I
    would say, however, that this man was a worthless character and
    was discharged “without honor” from the army during a previous
    enlistment.

                           Very respectfully,

      (Signed) WALLACE DEWITT,
      _1st Lieut. and Asst. Surgeon U. S. Army, Commdg. Detachment._

As supplementing Dr. DeWitt’s statement it may be mentioned that Rinard
reported for the experiment at New Haven on December 11, 1903, and
remained here until February 2, 1904. On December 11 he weighed 59.8
kilos, while on February 2, the last day he was here, his body-weight was
60 kilos. Evidently, any restriction of diet he may have suffered had not
made any great impression upon his bodily condition.

There were thirteen men of the detachment who really took part in the
experiment, and of these all but four were in the original detail. Of
these four, two joined in October and two early in November. Of these
thirteen, all but two continued to the close of the experiment, April 4,
1904.

The following statement gives the name, age, birthplace, occupation,
length of service (U. S. Army), etc. of the thirteen men.

It will be noted that the men range in age from twenty-one years six
months to forty-three years, and that representatives of many countries
are on the list.

Regarding the duties of the men, _i. e._, their daily work, the following
statement from Dr. DeWitt will give all needed information on this point.
The character of the Gymnasium work will be referred to later.

  +----------------------+------------+-------------+---------------------+
  |                      |Age on      |Length of    |                     |
  |                      |Oct. 1, 1903|Service on   |                     |
  |        Name.         |(Years and  |Oct. 1, 1903.|     Birthplace.     |
  |                      |Months).    |(Years and   |                     |
  |                      |            |Months).     |                     |
  +----------------------+------------+-------------+---------------------+
  |_Private first class._|            |             |                     |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |Broyles, Jonah        |    24-6    |     3-3     |Campbell Co., Tenn.  |
  |Coffman, William E.   |    22-1    |     0-2     |Edinsburg, W. Va.    |
  |Fritz, Charles J.     |    27-8    |     3-0     |Switzerland.         |
  |Henderson, James D.   |    25-1    |     2-0     |Marshall, N. C.      |
  |Loewenthal, Maurice D.|    22-8    |     0-2     |New York, N. Y.      |
  |Morris, William       |    21-6    |     3-8     |San Juan, P. R.      |
  |Oakman, William H.    |    43-0    |     1-7     |Blackville, S. C.    |
  |Sliney, William F.    |    26-7    |     5-0     |Roxbury, Mass.       |
  |Steltz, John J. B.    |    23-1    |     0-3     |Schuylkill, Pa.      |
  |Zooman, Ben           |    25-3    |     1-11    |London, Eng.         |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |       _Private._     |            |             |                     |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |Cohn, Isaac           |    21-8    |     0-1     |Jerusalem, Pal.      |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |      TRANSFERRED.    |            |             |                     |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |_Private first class._|            |             |                     |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |Davis, Charles P.     |    27-0    |     0-2     |Darlington Co. S. C. |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |       _Private._     |            |             |                     |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  |Bates, Barnard        |    26-8    |     1-10    |San Francisco, Cal.  |
  |                      |            |             |                     |
  +----------------------+------------+-------------+---------------------+

  +----------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |        Name.         |Occupation before    |         Remarks.      |
  |                      |Original Enlistment. |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  +----------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+
  |_Private first class._|                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |Broyles, Jonah        | Scholar             | Joined Nov. 13, 1903. |
  |Coffman, William E.   | Clerk               | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Fritz, Charles J.     | Gasfitter           | Joined Oct. 30, 1903. |
  |Henderson, James D.   | Student             | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Loewenthal, Maurice D.| Clerk               | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Morris, William       | Scholar             | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Oakman, William H.    | Bookkeeper          | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Sliney, William F.    | Painter             | Joined Oct. 21, 1903. |
  |Steltz, John J. B.    | Painter             | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |Zooman, Ben           | Hosp. Orderly       | Joined Sept. 28, 1903.|
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |       _Private._     |                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |Cohn, Isaac           | Porter in Drug store| Joined Nov. 13, 1903. |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |      TRANSFERRED.    |                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |_Private first class._|                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |Davis, Charles P.     | Machinist           | Joined Sept. 28, 1903;|
  |                      |                     |   left Jan. 14, 1904. |
  |       _Private._     |                     |                       |
  |                      |                     |                       |
  |Bates, Barnard        |  Painter            |Joined Sept. 28, 1903; |
  |                      |                     | left Feb. 12, 1904.   |
  +----------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+

                               HOSPITAL CORPS DETACHMENT U. S. ARMY,
                               332 TEMPLE STREET, NEW HAVEN, CONN.,
                               March 17, 1904.

    Professor R. H. CHITTENDEN, _Director Sheffield Scientific
    School_, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

    SIR,—In compliance with your verbal request I have the honor to
    inform you that the duties of this detachment during the tour
    of duty at this station have been as follows:—

    At 6.45 A. M. the men arise and their body-weights are taken
    immediately, after which they dress and assemble for reveille
    roll-call.

    7.15. Breakfast. After this meal they are all engaged in
    various duties about the quarters, such as inside and outside
    police, kitchen police, assisting in measurement of urine
    and fæces and transportation of the same to the laboratory;
    cleansing of fæces cans and urine bottles, etc. They are
    occupied with these various duties until about 9 A. M.

    9 A. M. Detachment proceeds to Gymnasium under charge of a
    non-commissioned officer, and by him reported to the gymnastic
    instructor.

    11 A. M. Detachment returns from Gymnasium.

    12 M. Dinner.

    1 P. M. Drill, weather permitting, otherwise a walk in charge
    of a non-commissioned officer, or indoor instruction relative
    to the duties of a soldier.

    2 P. M. Relief from drill; walk, or instruction.

    2.30 P. M. Instruction by a non-commissioned officer in their
    duties as nurses, etc.

    3.30 P. M. Relief from instruction.

    5 P. M. Supper.

    5.30 P. M. Retreat roll-call.

    10 P. M. All men in bed.

    This routine is the same for every day in the week except
    Saturday and Sunday. On Saturday drill and instruction in the
    afternoon are omitted, and on Sundays the men are also free
    from gymnasium work.

    In addition to the duties mentioned above, a special detail of
    two men is made every morning to assist in the weighing and
    serving of the food, and from time to time details are sent
    to the laboratory and reported to Dr. Mendel for such work
    connected with the investigation as he might assign them.

                           Very respectfully,

       (Signed) WALLACE DEWITT,
       _1st Lieut. and Asst. Surgeon U. S. Army, Commdg. Det. H. C._

Here we have a group of men, thirteen in number, quite different in
type from the preceding group; men accustomed to living a vigorous life
under varying conditions, and who naturally had great liking for the
pleasures of eating. Further, they were men who had no personal interest
whatever in the experiment or in the principles involved. To be sure,
they had volunteered for the work, and the objects of the experiment had
been fully explained to them. Like good soldiers they no doubt desired
to obey orders, and they doubtless preferred to see the experiment a
success rather than a failure, but they had not that interest that would
lead them to undergo any great personal discomfort. This point should
be kept in mind, since it has a distinct bearing upon the possibility
of establishing physiological economy of diet in persons who would not
willingly incommode themselves or suffer personal inconvenience.

The experiment commenced on October 4, 1903, and for a period of six
months every detail bearing upon the nutrition and condition of the men
under the gradually changed conditions was carefully observed. Every
precaution to preserve the health and good spirits of the men was taken.
Pure distilled water was sent to the quarters each morning, magazines
and other periodicals were supplied through the courtesy of friends,
occasional visits to the theatre were indulged in; in fact all that could
be done to counterbalance any possible depressing influence from the
partial restraints of the experiment was arranged for.

[Illustration: _Showing a group of the soldiers at work in the
gymnasium._]

Regarding the details of the work; the twenty-four hours’ urine was
collected by each man, also the fæces for each day, and these were
subjected to chemical analysis with a view to following out the various
changes in the amount and character of the proteid metabolism going on
in the body as measured by the output of total nitrogen, uric acid, and
phosphoric acid in the urine, and by the amount of nitrogen in the fæces
with reference to the degree of digestion and utilization of the proteid
foods ingested.

During the first two weeks the ordinary army rations were given to the
men; later a gradual change was made, accompanied by a reduction in the
amount of proteid food, with some reduction likewise in the total fuel
value of the food. All the food placed before each man was carefully
weighed, and at the close of every meal any uneaten food was weighed
and the amount subtracted from the initial weights. During the balance
periods, when the income and output of nitrogen were carefully compared,
the food materials were weighed with greater care and large samples of
each article were taken for analysis, to determine the exact content of
nitrogen. Every figure for nitrogen shown in the tables was verified by
at least a duplicate chemical analysis so as to avoid any possibility of
error.

It is not necessary to give here any detailed description of the changes
made in the character of the diet, since on pages 288 to 326 may be found
the daily dietary from October 2, 1903, to April 4, 1904,—each meal of
the day,—showing the amount and character of the food given the men
during the six months period. It should be stated, however, that at no
time were the men placed on a cereal diet or on a truly vegetable diet.
The object in view was simply to study the possibilities of a general
physiological economy in diet, with special reference to the minimal
proteid requirement of the healthy man. To be sure, in doing this meats,
owing to their high content of proteid, were very much reduced in amount
and on many days no meat at all was given, but as the dietary is looked
through it will be seen that the main change was from a heavy meat diet
(rich in proteid) to a lighter diet, comparatively poor in proteid, with
an increasing predominance of vegetable and cereal foods. Condiments are
also noticeable in the diet, together with the ordinary accessories,
coffee and tea. Variety was also considered as a necessary factor, not
to be overlooked, as contributing largely to the maintenance of a proper
physiological condition.

From a study of the tables which follow, showing the chemical composition
of the daily urine, it will be seen that during the first sixteen days,
viz., from October 4 until October 20 or 21, when the men were on the
ordinary army ration with opportunity to eat an abundance of meat, the
daily urine frequently contained 16 to 17 grams of nitrogen, showing a
metabolism of over 100 grams of proteid on such days. Sliney, indeed,
averaged for four days an output of 18.19 grams of nitrogen, while
Coffman, Henderson, and Zooman showed an average daily excretion of about
15 grams of nitrogen each for the sixteen days from October 4.


OAKMAN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  66.7 | 1160  | 1019 |   16.37   |    0.549  |    2.76   |
  |         5 |  66.7 | 1030  | 1025 |   12.36   |           |           |
  |         6 |  66.0 |  740  | 1029 |   11.85   |    0.703  |    1.15   |
  |         7 |  66.0 |  480  | 1031 |   10.31   |           |           |
  |         8 |  65.4 |  660  | 1030 |   14.30   |    0.574  |    1.32   |
  |         9 |  65.4 |  830  | 1029 |   15.94   |           |           |
  |        10 |  65.4 | 1440  | 1018 |   17.02   |           |           |
  |        11 |  66.1 | 2220  | 1012 |   16.12   |    0.591  |    2.64   |
  |        12 |  66.7 | 1300  | 1020 |   13.33   |           |           |
  |        13 |  66.8 | 2140  | 1013 |   15.67   |    0.610  |    2.56   |
  |        14 |  66.4 | 1290  | 1017 |   12.38   |           |           |
  |        15 |  66.7 | 1730  | 1017 |   14.95   |    0.653  |    1.93   |
  |        16 |  66.7 | 1520  | 1017 |   13.68   |           |           |
  |        17 |  66.2 | 1490  | 1018 |   15.20   |           |           |
  |        18 |  66.2 | 2030  | 1014 |   16.44   |    0.646  |    2.66   |
  |        19 |  65.8 | 1580  | 1017 |   16.78   |           |           |
  |        20 |  65.3 | 1900  | 1014 |   16.19   |    0.626  |    1.95   |
  |        21 |  65.4 | 1100  | 1024 |   12.07   |           |           |
  |        22 |  66.0 | 1200  | 1018 |   11.30   |    0.502  |    1.11   |
  |        23 |  66.4 | 2060  | 1015 |   11.37   |           |           |
  |        24 |  67.2 | 1970  | 1015 |   11.88   |           |           |
  |        25 |  67.1 | 1480  | 1014 |    8.64   |    0.411  |    2.07   |
  |        26 |  67.2 | 1510  | 1018 |   11.78   |           |           |
  |        27 |  67.2 | 1890  | 1015 |   12.13   |    0.406  |    1.99   |
  |        28 |  67.4 | 1620  | 1014 |    9.82   |           |           |
  |        29 |  67.6 |  980  | 1018 |    6.82   |    0.493  |    1.62   |
  |        30 |  67.5 |  820  | 1022 |   10.91   |           |           |
  |        31 |  67.0 |  930  |      |           |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  67.4 | 1480  | 1015 |   10.20   |    0.460  |    1.49   |
  |         2 |  67.6 | 1160  | 1018 |   10.37   |           |           |
  |         3 |  67.4 | 1160  | 1020 |   10.44   |    0.489  |    1.53   |
  |         4 |  67.1 |  720  | 1024 |    6.61   |           |           |
  |         5 |  66.6 |  640  | 1029 |    8.02   |    0.495  |    1.17   |
  |         6 |  66.5 | 1200  | 1016 |    9.57   |           |           |
  |         7 |  66.0 |  840  | 1023 |    8.57   |           |           |
  |         8 |  66.0 | 1100  | 1017 |    8.32   |    0.452  |    1.67   |
  |         9 |  66.0 |  720  | 1030 |    8.53   |           |           |
  |        10 |  66.4 |  880  | 1022 |   10.19   |    0.515  |    1.30   |
  |        11 |  66.6 | 1080  | 1018 |    9.72   |           |           |
  |        12 |  66.9 |  920  | 1023 |    8.38   |    0.616  |    1.54   |
  |        13 |  67.2 |  800  | 1025 |    6.43   |           |           |
  |        14 |  66.5 |  600  | 1026 |    7.38   |           |           |
  |        15 |  66.3 | 1360  | 1014 |    8.98   |    0.403  |    1.44   |
  |        16 |  66.4 | 1160  | 1025 |    9.88   |           |           |
  |        17 |  66.4 |  900  | 1020 |    6.69   |    0.343  |    0.94   |
  |        18 |  66.0 | 1820  | 1010 |    7.92   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  65.4 | 1160  | 1017 |    5.57   |⎬   0.436  |    1.09   |
  |        20 |  66.0 | 1120  | 1020 |    8.73   |⎪ daily av.| daily av. |
  |        21 |  66.4 | 1020  | 1020 |    7.89   |⎭          |           |
  |        22 |  66.1 | 1360  | 1016 |    8.16   |    0.413  |    1.83   |
  |        23 |  67.0 | 2600  | 1008 |    8.11   |           |           |
  |        24 |  65.9 | 1140  | 1015 |    6.43   |    0.380  |    1.90   |
  |        25 |  65.9 | 1800  | 1011 |    7.56   |           |           |
  |        26 |  65.6 | 1200  | 1020 |    7.63   |    0.377  |    1.71   |
  |        27 |  66.2 | 1300  | 1015 |    7.41   |           |           |
  |        28 |  65.9 | 1200  | 1012 |    6.70   |           |           |
  |        29 |  65.9 | 1480  | 1019 |    8.79   |    0.531  |    1.73   |
  |        30 |  65.4 | 1540  | 1011 |    8.41   |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  65.0 | 1080  | 1015 |    7.13   |    0.484  |    1.45   |
  |         2 |  65.6 | 1440  | 1012 |    8.38   |           |           |
  |         3 |  64.5 |  940  | 1021 |    8.58   |    0.438  |    1.66   |
  |         4 |  65.0 |  780  | 1022 |    7.22   |           |           |
  |         5 |  65.4 | 1280  | 1016 |    8.06   |           |           |
  |         6 |  65.4 | 1880  | 1012 |    7.67   |    0.320  |    1.86   |
  |         7 |  65.0 | 1600  | 1013 |    6.24   |           |           |
  |         8 |  64.9 | 1680  | 1011 |    7.86   |    0.304  |    1.77   |
  |         9 |  65.0 | 1180  | 1013 |    7.74   |           |           |
  |        10 |  64.7 | 1120  | 1016 |    7.59   |    0.308  |    1.37   |
  |        11 |  64.7 |  860  | 1021 |    7.58   |           |           |
  |        12 |  64.8 |  700  | 1026 |    6.34   |           |           |
  |        13 |  64.6 |  880  | 1022 |    7.87   |    0.404  |    1.47   |
  |        14 |  64.7 | 1540  | 1017 |    9.33   |           |           |
  |        15 |  64.2 | 1140  | 1015 |    6.98   |    0.436  |    1.71   |
  |        16 |  64.3 | 1040  | 1018 |    6.74   |           |           |
  |        17 |  64.4 |  980  | 1018 |    6.94   |    0.368  |    1.05   |
  |        18 |  64.7 | 1605  | 1015 |    8.57   |           |           |
  |        19 |  64.2 | 1250  | 1013 |    8.77   |           |           |
  |        20 |  63.4 | 1000  | 1016 |    7.56   |    0.462  |    1.25   |
  |        21 |  63.6 | 1190  | 1016 |    8.35   |           |           |
  |        22 |  63.0 | 1470  | 1011 |    8.47   |    0.245  |    1.26   |
  |        23 |  63.6 |  672  | 1028 |    5.88   |           |           |
  |        24 |  63.8 |  980  | 1017 |    6.55   |    0.294  |    0.89   |
  |        25 |  63.5 | 2310  | 1008 |    6.37   |           |           |
  |        26 |  63.9 | 1860  | 1016 |    6.92   |           |           |
  |        27 |  63.5 | 1590  | 1015 |    7.54   |    0.380  |    1.11   |
  |        28 |  63.0 | 1840  | 1018 |    8.39   |           |           |
  |        29 |  62.9 | 1145  | 1018 |    6.11   |    0.546  |    0.72   |
  |        30 |  63.2 | 1300  | 1020 |    6.78   |           |           |
  |        31 |  63.5 | 1080  | 1020 |    5.96   |    0.421  |    1.18   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  64.0 | 2360  | 1013 |    8.64   |⎫          |           |
  |         2 |  63.6 | 1270  | 1018 |    5.33   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  64.0 | 2475  | 1012 |    7.42   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  63.6 | 1820  | 1012 |    5.63   |⎬   0.329  |    1.43   |
  |         5 |  63.0 | 1520  | 1013 |    6.66   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  63.5 | 1270  | 1016 |    6.71   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  63.0 | 1135  | 1016 |    6.74   |    0.344  |    1.06   |
  |         8 |  63.5 |  870  | 1022 |    6.06   |           |           |
  |         9 |  63.6 | 1640  | 1010 |    6.89   |           |           |
  |        10 |  63.6 | 1240  | 1015 |    5.95   |    0.409  |    1.42   |
  |        11 |  63.5 | 1740  | 1012 |    7.31   |           |           |
  |        12 |  63.0 |  840  | 1020 |    6.00   |    0.439  |           |
  |        13 |  62.9 |  885  | 1021 |    7.33   |    0.490  |           |
  |        14 |  63.0 | 1425  | 1015 |    8.29   |    0.441  |           |
  |        15 |  62.8 | 1000  | 1023 |    7.14   |    0.390  |           |
  |        16 |  62.9 | 1525  | 1015 |    8.23   |    0.372  |           |
  |        17 |  62.7 | 1740  | 1017 |    8.14   |    0.400  |           |
  |        18 |  62.3 | 1200  | 1020 |    8.42   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  62.7 |  990  | 1023 |    7.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  62.7 |  985  | 1020 |    7.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  62.7 | 1080  | 1021 |    8.23   |⎬   0.423  |    1.32   |
  |        22 |  62.7 | 1670  | 1010 |    7.01   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  62.2 |  970  | 1017 |    6.58   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  62.2 | 1800  | 1013 |    7.99   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  62.2 | 1630  | 1013 |    7.43   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  62.0 |  880  | 1026 |    6.86   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  62.5 | 1250  | 1017 |    9.07   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |  62.4 | 1560  | 1016 |    8.61   |⎬   0.412  |    1.45   |
  |        29 |  62.7 | 1325  | 1018 |    6.28   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  62.9 | 2015  | 1013 |    7.25   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |  62.4 | 1730  | 1018 |    6.64   |⎭          |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  62.8 |  910  | 1027 |    5.51   |⎫          |           |
  |         2 |  63.0 | 1610  | 1016 |    7.15   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  62.5 | 1330  | 1020 |    7.18   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  62.7 | 1480  | 1023 |    7.46   |⎬   0.395  |    1.42   |
  |         5 |  63.0 | 1600  | 1020 |    6.62   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  63.2 | 1980  | 1012 |    6.53   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |  63.0 | 1775  | 1015 |    6.39   |⎭          |           |
  |         8 |  62.3 | 1860  | 1013 |    8.26   |⎫          |           |
  |         9 |  62.9 | 2010  | 1013 |    7.36   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  62.0 | 1195  | 1025 |    7.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |  62.9 | 1580  | 1016 |    8.82   |⎬   0.233  |           |
  |        12 |  62.5 | 1900  | 1013 |    8.09   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  62.4 | 1560  | 1016 |    7.30   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |  62.5 | 1480  | 1017 |    7.90   |⎭          |           |
  |        15 |  62.5 | 1610  | 1023 |    8.93   |⎫          |           |
  |        16 |  63.0 | 1570  | 1019 |    7.86   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  62.8 | 2375  | 1014 |    9.69   |⎪          |           |
  |        18 |  62.2 | 1060  | 1022 |    7.80   |⎬   0.430  |           |
  |        19 |  62.0 |  910  | 1029 |    8.13   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  62.3 | 1710  | 1012 |    8.10   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  62.6 | 1940  | 1010 |    7.33   |⎭          |           |
  |        22 |  62.4 | 1250  | 1021 |    7.73   |⎫          |           |
  |        23 |  62.7 | 1700  | 1012 |    6.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  62.4 | 1525  | 1017 |    8.65   |⎪          |           |
  |        25 |  62.2 | 1980  | 1013 |    8.55   |⎬   0.489  |           |
  |        26 |  62.0 | 1145  | 1017 |    6.77   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  61.8 | 1150  | 1019 |    6.87   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |  62.0 | 1445  | 1020 |    7.46   |⎭          |           |
  |        29 |  62.2 | 1015  | 1024 |    6.88   |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  62.6 | 1225  | 1019 |    7.42   |           |           |
  |         2 |  62.5 | 1620  | 1017 |    7.58   |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.3 | 1585  | 1016 |    6.85   |           |           |
  |         4 |  62.3 | 1815  | 1015 |    7.95   |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.0 | 1565  | 1014 |    6.10   |           |           |
  |         6 |  62.0 | 1700  | 1020 |    7.96   |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.0 | 1240  | 1016 |    7.44   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  62.5 | 1710  | 1015 |    8.72   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  62.0 | 1670  | 1016 |    7.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  62.5 | 1590  | 1016 |    7.63   |⎬   0.411  |           |
  |        11 |  62.0 | 1410  | 1021 |    8.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  62.1 | 1530  | 1018 |    7.44   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  62.1 | 1780  | 1016 |    8.65   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  62.0 | 1300  | 1019 |    8.11   |⎫          |           |
  |        15 |  62.0 | 1820  | 1012 |    7.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  62.2 | 1670  | 1017 |    9.12   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  62.4 | 1380  | 1020 |    8.20   |⎬   0.468  |           |
  |        18 |  62.7 | 1785  | 1015 |    7.82   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |  62.5 | 1910  | 1017 |    7.68   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  62.7 | 1965  | 1013 |    6.72   |⎭          |           |
  |        21 |  62.1 |  930  | 1026 |    5.72   |⎫          |           |
  |        22 |  62.4 | 1770  | 1012 |    7.86   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  62.0 | 1560  | 1017 |    7.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  62.0 | 1860  | 1015 |    8.15   |⎬   0.429  |           |
  |        25 |  61.6 | 1130  | 1023 |    7.19   |⎪          |           |
  |        26 |  62.0 | 2000  | 1013 |    8.88   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  61.9 | 1320  | 1019 |    7.13   |⎭          |           |
  |        28 |  62.0 | 1025  | 1025 |    6.64   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  62.4 | 1830  | 1018 |    8.34   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  62.3 | 1500  | 1020 |    6.30   |⎬   0.379  |           |
  |        31 |  62.0 | 1600  | 1021 |    7.10   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  62.0 | 2070  | 1014 |    6.83   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  62.0 | 1250  | 1025 |    5.55   |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.0 | 2115  | 1009 |    4.57   |           |           |
  |         4 |  62.1 | 2110  | 1013 |    5.95   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 21          | 1437  | 1017 |    7.42   |    0.405  |    1.39   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


MORRIS.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  59.2 |  970  | 1023 |   13.74   |    0.563  |    1.46   |
  |         5 |  59.2 | 1340  | 1018 |   13.43   |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.4 |  720  | 1026 |    9.16   |    0.546  |    1.42   |
  |         7 |  58.9 |  685  | 1028 |   12.70   |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.4 |  400  | 1019 |    5.27   |    0.179  |    0.54   |
  |         9 |  58.4 |  820  | 1027 |           |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.4 | 1260  | 1023 |   13.68   |           |           |
  |        11 |  58.5 | 1400  | 1020 |   18.48   |    0.782  |    2.32   |
  |        12 |  58.5 | 1220  | 1021 |   13.40   |           |           |
  |        13 |  58.6 | 1580  | 1016 |   13.84   |    0.614  |    2.21   |
  |        14 |  58.3 | 1070  | 1027 |   16.05   |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 |  850  | 1029 |   13.82   |    0.626  |    1.50   |
  |        16 |  58.9 |  940  | 1020 |   15.40   |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.2 | 1500  | 1015 |   11.70   |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.0 | 1150  | 1026 |   15.73   |    0.796  |    2.19   |
  |        19 |  58.5 | 1160  | 1028 |   18.86   |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.4 | 1160  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.4 | 1050  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.6 |  910  | 1027 |⎬  14.62   |    0.602  |    1.77   |
  |        23 |  58.6 | 1100  | 1024 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        24 |  58.8 | 1030  | 1029 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        25 |  59.0 | 1080  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.1 | 1060  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.1 | 1240  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.1 |  860  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  60.0 |  800  | 1026 |⎬  10.30   |    0.638  |    1.37   |
  |        30 |  59.7 |  880  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  59.6 |  640  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  60.0 |  990  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  59.6 |  750  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.9 |  900  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  60.0 |  980  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.0 | 1180  | 1018 |⎬   7.60   |    0.437  |    1.26   |
  |         6 |  59.5 |  320  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.7 |  620  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.8 | 1220  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.6 |  860  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.4 |  800  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.0 |  860  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  59.1 |  760  | 1025 |⎬   7.03   |    0.413  |    1.02   |
  |        13 |  59.2 |  740  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.1 | 1160  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.0 |  560  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.6 |  860  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  58.7 |  680  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  58.6 |  580  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.4 |  920  | 1016 |⎬   5.88   |    0.345  |    0.84   |
  |        20 |  59.0 |  880  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.5 |  840  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.0 |  680  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.3 | 1040  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.5 | 1260  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  59.3 |  820  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.3 |  740  | 1032 |⎬   7.34   |    0.477  |    1.12   |
  |        27 |  60.0 | 1020  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.4 |  860  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  59.4 |  700  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  59.5 |  880  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  59.1 | 1020  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  59.8 | 1420  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.2 | 1240  | 1027 |⎬   9.55   |    0.607  |    1.63   |
  |         4 |  59.5 |  720  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.6 |  800  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  59.6 |  820  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.4 |  840  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  59.6 |  540  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  59.4 |  880  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.7 |  900  | 1018 |⎬   7.73   |    0.410  |    1.48   |
  |        11 |  59.2 |  780  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  59.1 |  740  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.1 |  820  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.0 |  840  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 | 1020  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.9 |  810  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.0 | 1020  | 1019 |⎬   6.68   |    0.332  |    1.24   |
  |        18 |  58.6 |  720  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.5 |  785  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.2 |  670  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.2 |  810  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.5 |  680  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.6 |  785  | 1024 |⎬   6.97   |    0.375  |           |
  |        24 |  58.6 |  930  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  58.8 | 1040  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  57.6 |  945  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.6 |  840  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.8 | 1070  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.4 | 1205  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  59.0 | 1000  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  59.0 |  935  | 1027 |⎬   6.70   |    0.296  |    1.20   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  58.5 | 1475  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.6 | 1350  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.6 |  545  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.7 |  840  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  58.6 | 1040  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.8 |  680  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.0 | 1040  | 1020 |⎬   6.41   |    0.332  |    1.11   |
  |         8 |  58.4 |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.4 | 1110  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.6 | 1120  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  58.9 | 1010  | 1017 |    5.58   |           |           |
  |        12 |  58.8 |  685  | 1019 |    4.19   |    0.405  |           |
  |        13 |  58.5 |  800  | 1029 |    7.92   |    0.785  |           |
  |        14 |  58.0 |  785  | 1027 |    7.91   |    0.494  |           |
  |        15 |  58.0 |  800  | 1030 |    7.44   |    0.488  |           |
  |        16 |  58.0 | 1195  | 1018 |    7.38   |    0.421  |           |
  |        17 |  58.0 |  880  | 1020 |    5.28   |    0.304  |           |
  |        18 |  58.0 | 1080  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.0 | 1075  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.0 |  920  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.9 |  715  | 1031 |⎬   7.31   |     0.449  |    1.40  |
  |        22 |  58.0 |  820  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.0 | 1065  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  58.2 | 1370  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  58.1 | 1490  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.2 | 1300  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.2 | 1335  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.3 | 1110  | 1014 |⎬   7.18   |    0.369  |    1.33   |
  |        29 |  58.4 |  915  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  58.4 | 1200  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  58.4 | 1490  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  58.4 |  870  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.9 |  680  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.9 | 1150  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.9 | 1900  | 1025 |⎬   7.04   |   0.418   |    1.36   |
  |         5 |  59.0 |  930  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  59.1 | 1030  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.0 |  975  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  59.5 |  880  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  59.4 |  970  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 | 1020  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.0 | 1015  | 1021 |⎬   7.69   |   0.484   |           |
  |        12 |  58.9 |  930  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.3 |  880  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.2 | 1150  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.2 | 1050  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.0 | 1310  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.4 | 1300  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.1 | 1400  | 1020 |⎬   7.49   |   0.423   |           |
  |        19 |  58.9 |  930  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.7 |  715  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.7 | 1240  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.3 |  915  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.4 | 1520  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  58.8 |  940  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  59.0 | 1405  | 1022 |⎬   6.30   |   0.471   |           |
  |        26 |  59.4 |  940  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  59.1 | 1375  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.1 |  810  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  59.0 | 1100  | 1026 |    6.40   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  59.1 | 1035  | 1026 |    6.64   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  58.8 |  990  | 1025 |    5.40   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  59.0 | 1235  | 1022 |    6.55   |⎬  0.394   |           |
  |         4 |  58.9 | 1075  | 1025 |    4.99   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  59.0 | 1280  | 1016 |    5.38   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  58.8 | 1230  | 1026 |    7.01   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  58.3 | 1100  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.8 | 1200  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  59.0 | 1310  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 | 1280  | 1020 |⎬   7.05   |   0.723   |           |
  |        11 |  58.8 | 1310  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  59.0 | 1350  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.1 | 1110  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  58.8 |  855  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 |  965  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.8 | 1210  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  58.8 | 1410  | 1022 |⎬   7.37   |   0.493   |           |
  |        18 |  59.0 | 1500  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  59.0 | 1290  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  59.0 | 1040  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.0 | 1040  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.9 |  980  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.8 |  880  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.0 |  950  | 1027 |⎬   6.67   |   0.552   |           |
  |        25 |  59.3 | 1210  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.2 | 1210  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  59.2 | 1210  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.1 | 1280  | 1026 |    6.68   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  59.0 | 1065  | 1027 |    5.69   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  59.0 | 1030  | 1028 |    6.06   |⎬   0.446  |           |
  |        31 |  59.0 | 1400  | 1025 |    6.96   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  58.8 | 1940  | 1019 |    7.10   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  59.0 | 1480  | 1025 |    6.13   |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.0 | 1470  | 1017 |    4.67   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 20          | 1017  | 1023 |    7.03   |    0.450  |    1.25   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


BROYLES.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Nov.   15 |  59.4 | 2500  | 1008 |    7.35   |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.0 | 2600  | 1006 |           |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.3 | 2600  | 1009 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        18 |  58.7 | 2400  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.0 | 1280  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.7 | 1800  | 1013 |⎬   7.95   |    0.381  |    1.93   |
  |        21 |  58.5 | 2240  | 1008 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        22 |  59.0 | 2100  | 1011 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |        23 |  58.0 | 1500  | 1009 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  57.7 | 1700  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  58.0 | 1080  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  57.8 | 1620  | 1016 |⎬   6.98   |    0.326  |    1.36   |
  |        27 |  58.0 |  700  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.0 | 2100  | 1007 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.0 | 1240  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  58.0 | 1880  | 1010 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  57.5 | 1760  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.4 | 1700  | 1009 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  57.4 | 1680  | 1011 |⎬   7.40   |    0.333  |    1.68   |
  |         4 |  57.0 | 1280  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  57.0 | 1420  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  57.6 | 2600  | 1009 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  57.6 |  600  | 1021 |    7.39   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  57.5 | 1960  | 1012 |   10.09   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  57.5 | 2060  | 1010 |    8.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  57.2 | 2280  | 1010 |    8.89   |⎬   0.265  |    1.68   |
  |        11 |  56.4 |  800  | 1021 |    6.67   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  56.8 |  660  | 1030 |    6.77   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  56.5 |  920  | 1021 |    8.00   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  56.6 | 1620  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  56.4 | 1100  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  56.4 | 1090  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  56.2 |  990  | 1019 |⎬   7.48   |    0.319  |    1.28   |
  |        18 |  56.2 |  590  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  56.0 |  750  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  56.1 |  630  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  56.1 | 1560  | 1012 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  56.0 | 1050  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  56.5 |  680  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  56.4 |  960  | 1020 |⎬   6.41   |    0.289  |    0.91   |
  |        25 |  56.6 | 1235  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  56.5 |  950  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  56.9 | 1520  | 1012 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  56.0 | 1265  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  55.8 | 1560  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  55.6 | 1710  | 1009 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  56.3 | 1135  | 1016 |⎬   6.70   |    0.297  |    1.17   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  56.0 | 1110  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  56.7 | 1470  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         3 |  56.9 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.2 | 1790  | 1010 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  58.0 | 1100  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  57.1 |  640  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.6 | 1180  | 1004 |⎬   5.99   |    0.371  |    1.27   |
  |         8 |  57.0 | 1190  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.6 |  810  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.8 | 1590  | 1010 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.0 | 1820  | 1011 |    6.99   |           |           |
  |        12 |  55.7 |  525  | 1027 |    5.38   |    0.621  |           |
  |        13 |  55.9 |  530  | 1031 |    6.99   |    0.595  |           |
  |        14 |  55.5 |  530  | 1032 |    7.47   |    0.514  |           |
  |        15 |  55.0 | 1300  | 1077 |    9.67   |    0.428  |           |
  |        16 |  56.0 | 1355  | 1016 |    7.65   |    0.386  |           |
  |        17 |  55.6 |  800  | 1020 |    5.28   |    0.291  |           |
  |        18 |  55.4 | 1770  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  55.0 | 2080  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  55.6 | 1285  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  55.6 | 1570  | 1013 |⎬   7.80   |    0.364  |    1.29   |
  |        22 |  56.0 | 2630  | 1007 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  55.7 | 1330  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  56.9 | 1470  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  57.0 | 2140  | 1009 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  57.2 | 1670  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.4 | 2140  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.0 | 1030  | 1018 |⎬   6.81   |    0.369  |    1.43   |
  |        29 |  58.0 | 1080  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  58.6 | 1080  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  58.8 | 1670  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  58.4 |  770  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.5 | 1020  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.0 | 1800  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.6 | 1390  | 1025 |⎬   7.06   |    0.409  |    1.54   |
  |         5 |  59.0 | 1240  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  59.6 | 1280  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.0 |  990  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.3 | 1485  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  59.4 | 1900  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 | 1530  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.0 | 1000  | 1023 |⎬   7.91   |    0.438  |           |
  |        12 |  58.6 |  790  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  58.7 | 1030  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  58.9 | 1260  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.0 | 1000  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.2 | 2110  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.3 | 1805  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.1 |  735  | 1026 |⎬   7.55   |    0.376  |           |
  |        19 |  59.0 | 1260  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  59.0 | 1040  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.0 | 1775  | 1012 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.3 | 1290  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.5 | 2010  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.7 |  650  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  59.4 | 2300  | 1011 |⎬   6.18   |    0.423  |           |
  |        26 |  60.5 | 1145  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  60.0 |  855  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  60.3 |  670  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  60.5 | 1310  | 1017 |    5.74   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  60.3 | 1235  | 1022 |    9.26   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  60.1 | 1550  | 1014 |    6.97   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  60.2 | 1470  | 1014 |    6.18   |⎬   0.306  |           |
  |         4 |  60.0 | 1580  | 1015 |    7.68   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  60.5 | 2060  | 1008 |    5.56   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  60.0 | 1755  | 1013 |    7.69   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  60.0 | 1230  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  60.2 |  950  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  60.5 | 1330  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  61.0 | 1620  | 1016 |⎬   9.99   |    0.428  |           |
  |        11 |  60.5 | 1160  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  61.0 | 1350  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  61.6 | 1670  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  62.0 | 1540  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.4 | 1160  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.4 | 1445  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  61.4 | 1610  | 1019 |⎬   8.19   |    0.484  |           |
  |        18 |  61.5 | 1220  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  61.0 | 1145  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  61.3 | 1155  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  61.2 | 1230  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  61.3 | 1350  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.2 | 1180  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  61.4 | 1490  | 1016 |⎬   7.07   |    0.580  |           |
  |        25 |  61.3 | 1620  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  61.4 | 1040  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  61.0 | 1160  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  61.0 | 1640  | 1015 |    6.79   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  61.0 | 1400  | 1020 |    7.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  61.0 | 2055  | 1014 |    7.27   |⎬   0.359  |           |
  |        31 |  61.0 | 1190  | 1023 |    6.21   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  61.2 | 1320  | 1018 |    5.86   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  61.0 | 1005  | 1028 |    5.61   |⎭          |           |
  |         3 |  61.0 | 2025  | 1013 |    7.17   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 15          | 1396  | 1017 |    7.26   |    0.398  |    1.41   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


COFFMAN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  59.1 | 2140  | 1012 |   17.33   |    0.373  |    2.03   |
  |         5 |  59.1 | 1780  | 1015 |   15.27   |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.7 | 1070  | 1024 |   12.62   |    0.641  |    2.05   |
  |         7 |  58.6 | 1800  | 1016 |   16.96   |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.6 | 1120  | 1024 |   14.49   |    0.480  |    1.89   |
  |         9 |  58.4 | 1150  | 1024 |   10.14   |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.3 | 2180  | 1012 |   16.06   |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.1 | 1580  | 1014 |   13.55   |    0.474  |    1.75   |
  |        12 |  59.1 |  980  | 1025 |   12.99   |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.0 | 1820  | 1014 |   14.85   |    0.613  |    2.50   |
  |        14 |  59.2 | 1150  | 1025 |   13.94   |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 | 2120  | 1013 |   16.03   |    0.337  |    2.23   |
  |        16 |  59.0 | 1220  | 1019 |   14.41   |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.0 | 1680  | 1019 |   12.60   |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.6 | 2720  | 1011 |   13.87   |    0.453  |    1.86   |
  |        19 |  59.4 | 2360  | 1017 |   23.64   |           |    3.01   |
  |        20 |  58.3 | 1320  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.1 | 1030  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.2 |  650  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.6 | 1640  | 1017 |⎬  13.21   |    0.475  |    1.76   |
  |        24 |  59.8 | 1320  | 1022 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        25 |  60.0 | 2300  | 1013 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |        26 |  59.8 | 1440  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  59.8 | 1280  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  60.2 | 1200  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  60.2 | 1000  | 1017 |⎬  11.40   |    0.524  |    1.91   |
  |        30 |  59.6 |  820  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  59.7 | 1020  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  59.4 |  700  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  60.0 |  880  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  59.6 |  560  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.3 |  540  | 1032 |⎬   8.71   |    0.430  |    1.61   |
  |         6 |  59.1 |  440  | 1036 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.6 |  460  | 1035 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.4 |  420  | 1035 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.6 |  700  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 |  620  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  58.5 |  600  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  58.7 |  840  | 1028 |⎬   8.61   |    0.431  |    1.12   |
  |        13 |  58.7 |  600  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  58.7 |  600  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 |  920  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.7 |  720  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  58.4 |  720  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.3 |  720  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.7 |  980  | 1026 |⎬   8.41   |    0.395  |    1.30   |
  |        20 |  59.0 | 1400  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.2 |  600  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.7 |  800  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.0 |  640  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.5 | 1120  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  59.6 | 1280  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.0 |  820  | 1028 |⎬   8.72   |    0.439  |    1.49   |
  |        27 |  59.0 |  740  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.0 |  360  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  59.2 | 1060  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  59.2 |  760  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  58.9 | 1140  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  59.5 |  780  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.5 |  800  | 1030 |⎬  11.14   |    0.586  |    1.52   |
  |         4 |  59.5 |  860  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.5 |  920  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  59.5 |  760  | 1032 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.4 |  860  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  59.4 |  540  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  59.0 |  660  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 |  640  | 1033 |⎬   9.95   |    0.400  |    1.62   |
  |        11 |  58.3 |  580  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  59.1 |  800  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  58.5 |  680  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  57.3 |  560  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.3 |  680  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.5 |  910  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  58.4 |  700  | 1024 |⎬   7.79   |    0.372  |    1.25   |
  |        18 |  58.4 | 1110  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  57.8 |  600  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  57.3 |  550  | 1032 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.0 |  600  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.7 |  470  | 1037 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.0 |  645  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  58.3 |  900  | 1014 |⎬   7.31   |    0.288  |           |
  |        25 |  57.8 |  730  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.0 | 1085  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.0 | 1000  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  57.6 | 1035  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  57.2 | 1145  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  57.4 | 1002  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  57.4 | 1300  | 1016 |⎬   7.60   |    0.246  |    1.20   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  57.6 | 1240  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  56.4 |  950  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  57.0 | 1038  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.6 | 1325  | 1008 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  58.2 | 1640  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.6 | 1090  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.0 | 1090  | 1015 |⎬   7.16   |    0.271  |    1.28   |
  |         8 |  57.4 |  785  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.7 |  710  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  57.4 | 1080  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.0 |  600  | 1027 |    8.14   |           |           |
  |        12 |  57.0 |  930  | 1020 |    8.82   |    0.508  |           |
  |        13 |  56.9 |  580  | 1031 |    8.28   |    0.508  |           |
  |        14 |  56.7 | 1040  | 1018 |    8.30   |    0.312  |           |
  |        15 |  56.5 |  650  | 1033 |    7.91   |    0.352  |           |
  |        16 |  56.5 | 1130  | 1017 |    7.32   |    0.305  |           |
  |        17 |  56.5 |  800  | 1025 |    7.44   |    0.315  |           |
  |        18 |  56.4 | 1540  | 1012 |⎫   6.19   |           |           |
  |        19 |  56.4 | 1510  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  56.5 | 1220  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  56.2 |  505  | 1033 |⎬   6.95   |    0.301  |    1.11   |
  |        22 |  56.3 |  900  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  56.4 | 1325  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  56.2 |  510  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  56.6 | 1460  | 1012 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  56.7 | 1400  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  56.7 | 1520  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  57.0 | 1720  | 1013 |⎬   7.55   |    0.340  |    1.09   |
  |        29 |  56.5 |  520  | 1035 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  56.5 |  870  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  56.7 |  980  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  56.2 |  700  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  56.9 | 1310  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  57.2 | 1120  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.3 | 1260  | 1028 |⎬   7.56   |    0.362  |    1.24   |
  |         5 |  58.0 | 1970  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  57.0 |  810  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.8 |  780  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  56.6 | 1130  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.0 | 1300  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.8 | 1140  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.4 | 1340  | 1020 |⎬   8.65   |    0.420  |           |
  |        12 |  57.2 | 1360  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  57.0 | 1020  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  57.0 | 1720  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  56.5 |  890  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  57.2 | 1190  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  57.4 | 1250  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  57.0 | 1630  | 1015 |⎬   8.18   |    0.318  |           |
  |        19 |  56.7 | 1225  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  57.0 |  900  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.0 | 1590  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.0 |  985  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.0 | 1465  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  56.7 | 1160  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  56.5 | 1340  | 1016 |⎬   7.62   |    0.395  |           |
  |        26 |  56.3 | 1015  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  56.0 |  630  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  56.7 | 1205  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  57.0 | 1530  | 1017 |    8.63   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  57.0 | 1030  | 1022 |    7.48   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  56.8 | 1295  | 1020 |    8.62   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  56.7 | 1040  | 1022 |    7.18   |⎬   0.365  |           |
  |         4 |  56.0 | 1130  | 1023 |    7.93   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  56.5 | 1540  | 1014 |    7.67   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  56.6 | 1105  | 1024 |    7.95   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  56.3 | 1190  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  56.5 | 1350  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  56.2 |  880  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.8 | 1500  | 1016 |⎬   8.27   |    0.338  |           |
  |        11 |  56.9 | 1120  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  56.6 | 1600  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  57.2 | 1230  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  57.0 | 1150  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  57.3 | 1580  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  57.3 | 1290  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  57.5 | 1355  | 1018 |⎬   8.07   |    0.288  |           |
  |        18 |  58.0 | 1635  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  56.8 | 1320  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  57.0 | 1085  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.4 | 1030  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.7 | 1970  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.4 | 1670  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  57.0 |  870  | 1031 |⎬   8.50   |    0.478  |           |
  |        25 |  57.0 | 1000  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  57.3 | 1320  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.0 | 1500  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.1 | 1485  | 1019 |    8.37   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  58.0 | 1580  | 1021 |    8.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  57.8 | 1415  | 1019 |    6.88   |⎬   0.371  |           |
  |        31 |  57.8 | 1285  | 1026 |    7.78   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  57.8 | 1135  | 1023 |    7.32   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  57.0 | 1415  | 1022 |    6.45   |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.0 | 2000  | 1018 |    4.12   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 2           | 1034  | 1024 |    8.17   |    0.379  |    1.23   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


SLINEY.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.   21 |  61.3 | 1990  | 1021 |   22.68   |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.2 | 1200  | 1025 |   16.77   |           |           |
  |        24 |  61.2 | 1290  | 1027 |   17.58   |           |           |
  |        25 |  61.4 | 1700  | 1016 |   15.72   |    0.686  |    2.59   |
  |        27 |  62.4 | 1240  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        28 |  62.0 |  840  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  62.2 |  630  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  62.2 |  820  | 1029 |⎬  11.10   |    0.664  |    1.26   |
  |        31 |  62.0 |  960  |      |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  | Nov.    1 |  62.1 |  780  | 1030 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |         2 |  61.7 |  940  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.4 | 1020  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.5 |  820  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  61.7 |  650  | 1028 |⎬  10.39   |    0.579  |    1.49   |
  |         6 |  62.0 |  860  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  61.5 |  780  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  61.5 |  720  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  61.7 | 1180  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  62.0 |  620  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  61.8 |  880  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  61.8 | 1000  | 1027 |⎬   9.71   |    0.625  |    1.39   |
  |        13 |  61.6 |  920  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  61.4 |  640  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.0 |  920  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  60.5 | 1000  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  60.4 | 1080  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  61.1 |  880  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  60.9 |  940  | 1020 |⎬   9.27   |    0.538  |    1.12   |
  |        20 |  61.3 | 1020  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  60.9 |  640  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  60.4 |  800  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.1 |  820  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  60.6 |  700  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  60.6 |  780  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  60.8 |  780  | 1031 |⎬   8.66   |    0.650  |    1.07   |
  |        27 |  61.7 | 1240  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  61.3 | 1080  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  61.2 | 1000  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  60.5 |  820  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  60.8 |  820  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  60.0 |  600  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  60.9 |  940  | 1015 |⎬  10.12   |    0.677  |    1.88   |
  |         4 |  60.9 | 1000  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.9 | 1580  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  61.0 |  840  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  60.4 |  760  | 1028 |    8.40   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  60.4 |  920  | 1022 |    9.71   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  61.0 | 1000  | 1020 |    8.94   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  60.5 |  740  | 1025 |    8.66   |⎬   0.671  |    1.66   |
  |        11 |  59.9 |  760  | 1031 |   11.43   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  60.0 |  660  | 1033 |    9.78   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  59.9 |  880  | 1030 |   11.98   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  60.3 | 1120  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.5 | 1060  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.9 |  710  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.9 |  880  | 1027 |⎬  10.20   |    0.652  |    1.23   |
  |        18 |  60.2 | 1200  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  60.0 | 1125  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  60.0 | 1210  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  60.0 |  715  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.5 |  940  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  60.0 |  895  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.9 | 1010  | 1018 |⎬   8.97   |    0.606  |           |
  |        25 |  59.8 | 1084  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  61.0 |  940  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  60.0 |  735  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.8 | 1250  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  59.7 | 1020  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  60.0 | 1760  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  60.0 |  980  | 1022 |⎬   7.20   |    0.515  |    1.29   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  60.0 | 1370  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  60.0 | 1152  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  60.4 | 1035  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.0 | 1210  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  61.0 | 1090  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  61.0 | 1400  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  60.8 | 1140  | 1020 |⎬   6.67   |    0.535  |    1.35   |
  |         8 |  60.0 |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  60.0 |  620  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  60.6 | 1200  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  61.8 | 1230  | 1015 |    7.23   |           |           |
  |        12 |  61.3 |  560  | 1027 |    5.94   |    0.953  |           |
  |        13 |  60.7 |  625  | 1029 |    8.44   |    0.988  |           |
  |        14 |  60.7 |  600  | 1030 |    7.42   |    0.674  |           |
  |        15 |  60.4 |  675  | 1032 |    7.89   |    0.693  |           |
  |        16 |  60.5 |  500  | 1030 |    7.23   |    0.584  |           |
  |        17 |  60.5 |  700  | 1030 |    8.15   |    0.691  |           |
  |        18 |  60.3 |  500  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  60.5 |  730  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  60.6 |  920  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  60.4 |       |      |⎬   8.13   |    0.303  |    1.22   |
  |        22 |  60.4 |  660  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  60.0 |  920  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  60.0 | 1320  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  60.2 | 1220  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  60.0 | 1260  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  60.2 |  845  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  60.3 |  560  | 1031 |⎬   7.14   |    0.686  |    0.98   |
  |        29 |  60.0 | 1030  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  60.4 | 1330  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  60.6 | 1125  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  60.7 |  830  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  60.8 | 1695  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  61.0 | 1760  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.3 | 1060  | 1025 |⎬   7.13   |    0.645  |    1.17   |
  |         5 |  61.2 | 1300  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  61.8 | 1880  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  61.8 | 1260  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  62.4 |  920  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  62.5 | 1500  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  62.6 | 1145  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  62.3 |  710  | 1019 |⎬   7.66   |    0.647  |           |
  |        12 |  61.0 | 1350  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  61.6 | 1030  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  61.5 |  780  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.5 | 1010  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.7 | 1175  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  62.1 | 1680  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  62.0 | 1010  | 1024 |⎬   8.07   |    0.600  |           |
  |        19 |  61.6 |  770  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  61.0 |  710  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  61.0 | 1240  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  61.2 | 1450  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.6 | 1425  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  62.0 |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  62.4 |       |      |⎬   8.86   |    0.746  |           |
  |        27 |  61.4 | 1080  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  61.4 |  835  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  61.0 |  800  | 1030 |    9.50   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  61.4 |  775  | 1028 |    8.09   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  61.0 |  760  | 1030 |    7.97   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  60.8 |  920  | 1023 |    7.78   |⎬   0.697  |           |
  |         4 |  61.0 |  960  | 1027 |    7.49   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  61.0 |  790  | 1029 |    7.54   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  61.0 |  980  | 1028 |    8.23   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  61.0 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |         8 |  61.0 | 1480  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  61.2 | 1960  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  61.0 |  740  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  60.8 |  950  | 1029 |⎬   7.65   |    0.672  |           |
  |        12 |  61.0 | 1370  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  60.8 | 1310  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  61.0 | 1460  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.2 | 1155  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.3 | 1100  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  61.0 | 1465  | 1013 |⎬   7.72   |    0.572  |           |
  |        18 |  60.9 | 1300  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  61.3 | 2270  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  61.6 | 1040  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  61.2 | 1020  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  61.4 | 1210  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.0 |  760  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  60.5 |  900  | 1024 |⎬   8.64   |    0.765  |           |
  |        25 |  60.6 |  840  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  60.8 |  890  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  61.0 | 1000  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  61.0 |  870  | 1026 |    7.09   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  61.0 |  825  | 1030 |    7.37   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  60.8 | 1080  | 1027 |    8.10   |⎬   0.502  |           |
  |        31 |  60.6 | 1030  | 1026 |    7.47   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  60.6 | 1130  | 1021 |    6.78   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  60.0 | 1590  | 1016 |    6.20   |           |           |
  |         3 |  60.6 | 1860  | 1013 |    6.59   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 1           | 1021  | 1024 |    8.39   |    0.647  |    1.32   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


STELTZ.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  52.3 | 1860  | 1010 |   11.16   |    0.325  |    1.54   |
  |         5 |  52.4 | 1020  | 1014 |    7.89   |           |           |
  |         6 |  52.0 | 1120  | 1013 |    8.27   |    0.648  |    1.47   |
  |         7 |  53.1 |  760  | 1014 |           |           |           |
  |         8 |  52.0 | 1280  | 1012 |    9.93   |    0.549  |    1.70   |
  |         9 |  52.0 | 1600  | 1014 |    8.83   |           |           |
  |        10 |  52.6 | 1900  | 1012 |   14.59   |           |           |
  |        11 |  52.6 | 1460  | 1010 |    7.97   |    0.368  |    1.55   |
  |        12 |  52.6 | 1740  | 1013 |   10.07   |           |           |
  |        13 |  52.9 | 2050  | 1013 |   12.79   |    0.758  |    2.00   |
  |        14 |  52.9 | 1260  | 1013 |    8.77   |           |           |
  |        15 |  52.6 | 1540  | 1013 |   12.20   |    0.512  |    1.60   |
  |        16 |  52.8 | 1880  | 1014 |   14.41   |           |           |
  |        17 |  52.5 | 1870  | 1013 |   14.36   |           |           |
  |        18 |  52.4 | 2230  | 1013 |   15.12   |    0.561  |    2.53   |
  |        19 |  52.5 | 1560  | 1010 |    8.89   |           |           |
  |        20 |  52.4 | 1880  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  52.6 | 1060  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  53.2 | 2100  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.4 | 2320  | 1012 |⎬  11.61   |    0.465  |    2.01   |
  |        24 |  52.9 | 1460  | 1017 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        25 |  53.4 | 1660  | 1016 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |        26 |  53.2 | 1150  |      |           |           |           |
  |        27 |  53.4 | 1500  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        28 |  53.2 | 1240  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  53.6 | 1220  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  53.3 | 1220  | 1015 |⎬   8.65   |    0.493  |    1.44   |
  |        31 |  52.9 | 1120  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  53.0 | 1620  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  53.8 | 1640  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  53.5 | 1020  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  52.6 | 1080  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  53.2 | 1060  | 1015 |⎬   6.81   |    0.364  |    1.32   |
  |         6 |  53.0 | 1280  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  53.1 | 1300  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  52.9 |  760  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  53.3 | 1060  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  53.2 | 1340  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  53.0 | 1140  | 1019 |⎬   7.31   |    0.380  |    1.40   |
  |        12 |  53.4 | 1360  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  53.4 | 1300  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  53.2 |  960  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  53.3 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |        16 |  53.2 | 1640  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  53.4 | 1620  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  53.4 | 1160  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  52.9 | 1940  | 1015 |⎬   8.07   |    0.409  |    1.45   |
  |        20 |  53.4 | 1800  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  53.4 | 1240  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  53.0 | 1180  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.4 | 1320  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  53.4 | 2000  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  53.5 | 1400  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  53.7 |  780  | 1026 |⎬   6.71   |    0.390  |    1.35   |
  |        27 |  53.5 | 1000  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  53.3 | 1600  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  53.5 | 1340  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  53.6 |  860  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  53.9 | 1960  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  53.4 | 1060  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  52.9 |  940  | 1018 |⎬   7.49   |    0.394  |    1.50   |
  |         4 |  53.6 | 1580  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  53.6 |  980  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  54.2 | 1280  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  53.7 |  960  | 1021 |    7.01   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  53.4 |  620  | 1020 |    4.98   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  53.4 | 1000  | 1016 |    5.88   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  53.5 | 1420  | 1015 |    7.67   |⎬   0.420  |    1.46   |
  |        11 |  53.5 | 1360  | 1018 |    8.20   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  53.4 | 1040  | 1024 |    7.92   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  52.7 |  920  | 1022 |    5.57   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  53.0 | 1340  | 1024 |   10.21   |           |           |
  |        15 |  52.9 | 1000  | 1019 |    7.98   |           |           |
  |        16 |  52.9 |  940  | 1016 |    4.79   |    0.226  |    0.75   |
  |        17 |  53.4 |  820  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        18 |  53.4 | 1330  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  53.4 | 1395  | 1014 |⎬   9.04   |    0.452  |    1.48   |
  |        20 |  53.1 | 1300  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  53.2 | 1220  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  53.1 | 1200  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.2 | 1465  | 1017 |⎬   7.42   |    0.387  |    0.80   |
  |        24 |  53.1 | 1100  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  53.2 |  970  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  54.0 | 1350  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  53.2 | 1105  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  53.0 | 1240  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  53.0 | 1180  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  53.4 |  910  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  53.4 |  810  | 1018 |⎬   6.44   |    0.356  |    0.92   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  53.8 | 1220  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  53.0 |  925  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  53.6 |  870  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  54.0 | 1055  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  54.0 | 1050  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  53.9 | 1195  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  53.6 |  980  | 1021 |⎬   6.78   |    0.392  |    1.15   |
  |         8 |  53.4 | 1020  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  53.3 | 1080  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  53.6 | 1010  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  53.9 |  960  | 1020 |    6.05   |           |           |
  |        12 |  53.0 |  620  | 1021 |    4.61   |    0.487  |           |
  |        13 |  53.6 | 1165  | 1019 |    7.90   |    0.609  |           |
  |        14 |  52.9 |  645  | 1022 |    4.99   |    0.298  |           |
  |        15 |  53.0 | 1450  | 1020 |    9.05   |    0.478  |           |
  |        16 |  53.4 | 1300  | 1018 |    7.56   |    0.405  |           |
  |        17 |  53.0 | 1440  | 1021 |    8.55   |    0.476  |           |
  |        18 |  53.0 | 1440  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  53.0 | 1115  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  53.0 | 1180  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  52.6 |  790  | 1024 |⎬   6.40   |    0.386  |    1.21   |
  |        22 |  52.7 |  660  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  52.8 | 1750  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  52.8 | 1440  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  52.6 | 1200  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  52.8 |  715  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  52.7 | 1625  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  52.8 | 1080  | 1016 |⎬   6.39   |    0.414  |    1.21   |
  |        29 |  52.8 | 1400  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  53.0 | 1300  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  53.4 | 1670  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  53.0 | 1800  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  53.2 |  770  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  53.3 | 1230  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  53.4 | 1530  | 1018 |⎬   6.06   |    0.351  |    1.31   |
  |         5 |  53.2 | 1400  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  53.0 | 1440  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  53.4 | 1330  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  53.0 | 1500  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  53.0 |  940  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  53.2 | 1400  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  53.4 | 1620  | 1023 |⎬   7.71   |    0.523  |           |
  |        12 |  53.6 | 1645  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  53.4 | 1370  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  53.0 | 1200  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  53.2 | 1560  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  53.0 | 1540  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  53.5 | 1610  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  53.2 | 1280  | 1024 |⎬   7.85   |    0.423  |           |
  |        19 |  53.0 | 1560  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  53.2 | 1635  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  53.0 | 1110  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  53.0 | 1860  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.2 | 1470  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  53.5 | 1205  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  53.5 | 2140  | 1014 |⎬   7.40   |    0.487  |           |
  |        26 |  53.8 | 1080  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  53.0 | 1165  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  53.7 | 1360  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  54.0 | 1400  | 1022 |    7.90   |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  53.9 | 1095  | 1021 |    5.98   |⎫          |           |
  |         2 |  53.4 | 1355  | 1020 |    6.58   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  53.2 | 2125  | 1015 |    8.09   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  53.0 | 1160  | 1016 |    4.66   |⎬   0.389  |           |
  |         5 |  53.2 | 1610  | 1022 |    8.69   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  53.0 | 1220  | 1022 |    8.20   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  53.0 |  720  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  53.2 | 1160  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  53.0 | 1280  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  52.5 | 1210  | 1017 |⎬   7.21   |    0.466  |           |
  |        11 |  52.6 | 1770  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  52.6 | 1510  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  52.3 | 1110  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  52.6 |  700  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  52.7 | 1215  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  53.0 | 1840  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  52.6 | 1685  | 1014 |⎬   7.22   |    0.414  |           |
  |        18 |  52.4 | 1770  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  53.2 | 1350  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  52.6 |  910  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  52.8 | 1210  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  52.7 | 1680  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.0 | 1630  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  52.8 |  900  | 1020 |⎬   7.70   |    0.550  |           |
  |        25 |  52.6 | 1600  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  53.0 | 1330  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  52.8 | 1750  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  53.0 |  845  | 1019 |    3.60   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  52.8 | 1490  | 1021 |    6.79   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  52.6 | 1790  | 1018 |    7.20   |⎬   0.334  |           |
  |        31 |  52.6 | 1560  | 1019 |    7.11   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  52.4 | 1670  | 1021 |    7.82   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  52.6 | 1165  | 1013 |    3.28   |           |           |
  |         3 |  53.0 | 1570  | 1018 |    6.50   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 2           | 1271  | 1018 |    7.13   |    0.416  |    1.24   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


HENDERSON.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  71.3 | 1320  | 1020 |   17.50   |    0.635  |    1.97   |
  |         5 |  71.3 | 1110  | 1019 |    9.79   |           |           |
  |         6 |  71.8 | 1020  | 1028 |   12.67   |    0.515  |    1.93   |
  |         7 |  71.6 | 1000  | 1017 |   12.00   |           |           |
  |         8 |  71.2 |  840  | 1023 |   11.29   |    0.379  |    1.85   |
  |         9 |  71.2 |  910  | 1030 |   14.20   |           |           |
  |        10 |  71.5 | 2220  | 1013 |   16.78   |           |           |
  |        11 |  71.7 | 1280  | 1022 |   16.28   |    0.587  |    2.04   |
  |        12 |  72.2 | 1360  | 1021 |   15.59   |           |           |
  |        13 |  72.4 |  910  | 1025 |   12.34   |    0.532  |    1.95   |
  |        14 |  72.4 | 1400  | 1020 |   16.04   |           |           |
  |        15 |  72.3 | 1700  | 1019 |   18.46   |    0.672  |    2.57   |
  |        16 |  72.8 | 1740  | 1015 |   16.70   |           |           |
  |        17 |  72.5 | 1620  | 1021 |   17.59   |           |           |
  |        18 |  72.7 | 2260  | 1015 |   19.26   |    0.602  |    2.27   |
  |        19 |  72.8 | 1150  | 1027 |   17.73   |           |           |
  |        20 |  72.5 |  950  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  72.5 | 1060  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  72.6 |  940  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  72.4 | 1880  | 1017 |⎬  14.31   |    0.612  |    1.60   |
  |        24 |  72.8 | 1100  | 1029 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        25 |  72.6 |  920  | 1027 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |        26 |  72.4 | 1120  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  73.0 | 1930  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  73.1 | 1340  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  73.6 |  820  | 1026 |⎬  12.10   |    0.557  |    1.91   |
  |        30 |  73.4 |  960  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  74.0 | 1040  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  74.3 | 1540  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  74.0 |  860  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  74.0 | 1240  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  74.0 |  840  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  73.0 | 1280  | 1012 |⎬   9.90   |    0.518  |    1.71   |
  |         6 |  73.6 | 1340  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  72.9 |  500  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  72.5 |  920  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  72.4 |  800  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  72.4 |  600  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  72.7 |  900  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  72.8 |  780  | 1032 |⎬   9.98   |    0.563  |    1.60   |
  |        13 |  72.6 |  760  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  72.0 |  960  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  72.4 | 1460  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  72.0 |  640  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  72.0 |  820  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  72.0 |  720  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  72.0 |  880  | 1027 |⎬   9.33   |    0.478  |    1.31   |
  |        20 |  72.3 | 1200  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  73.5 | 1200  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  71.5 | 1180  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  71.6 | 1040  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  71.3 | 1040  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  72.0 | 1020  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  72.0 | 1200  | 1021 |⎬  11.63   |    0.610  |    1.61   |
  |        27 |  71.6 |  840  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  72.0 |  720  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  72.5 | 1400  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  72.4 |  820  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  72.0 |  900  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  72.1 | 1360  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  71.4 |  980  | 1029 |⎬  10.69   |    0.536  |    1.58   |
  |         4 |  71.8 | 1160  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  71.8 | 1740  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  71.6 |  840  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  71.0 |  880  | 1029 |   10.41   |           |           |
  |         8 |  71.2 | 1100  | 1020 |   12.54   |           |           |
  |         9 |  71.3 |  960  | 1021 |   11.92   |           |           |
  |        10 |  71.4 | 1220  | 1019 |   12.21   |    0.428  |    1.74   |
  |        11 |  71.2 |  680  | 1035 |   11.02   |           |           |
  |        12 |  70.6 |  640  | 1036 |    9.60   |           |           |
  |        13 |  70.6 |  940  | 1018 |    6.26   |           |           |
  |        14 |  70.0 | 1280  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  70.0 | 1260  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  70.0 |  790  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  70.2 |  980  | 1020 |⎬   9.80   |    0.411  |    1.57   |
  |        18 |  70.1 | 1060  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  70.0 | 1510  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  69.8 |  790  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  69.5 |  650  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  70.0 |  720  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  70.0 |  450  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  69.6 |  880  | 1024 |⎬   7.47   |    0.438  |           |
  |        25 |  69.5 | 1300  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  69.0 |  930  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  69.0 |  840  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  69.0 |  920  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  68.8 | 1180  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  69.4 |  865  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  70.0 | 1330  | 1026 |⎬   7.77   |    0.407  |    1.24   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  68.9 |  890  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  69.0 |  947  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  69.1 | 1025  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  69.2 |  890  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  69.3 |  925  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  69.3 |  550  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  69.0 |  600  | 1029 |⎬   7.78   |    0.439  |    1.25   |
  |         8 |  68.8 |  880  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  69.0 |  850  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  69.0 | 1360  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  68.9 |  610  | 1025 |    5.89   |           |           |
  |        12 |  68.5 |  715  | 1024 |    7.68   |    0.498  |           |
  |        13 |  68.6 |  835  | 1023 |    8.22   |    0.551  |           |
  |        14 |  68.2 | 1040  | 1020 |    8.24   |    0.461  |           |
  |        15 |  68.2 |  880  | 1025 |    7.76   |    0.440  |           |
  |        16 |  68.2 |  970  | 1023 |    7.56   |    0.575  |           |
  |        17 |  68.0 |  810  | 1023 |    7.87   |    0.441  |           |
  |        18 |  68.0 | 1130  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  68.0 | 1290  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  68.2 |  670  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  67.8 |  720  | 1030 |⎬   7.82   |    0.445  |    1.18   |
  |        22 |  67.5 |  520  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  67.6 |  710  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  67.6 |  775  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  68.0 | 1220  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  68.0 |  815  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  68.3 |  920  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  68.1 |  950  | 1023 |⎬   7.50   |    0.422  |    1.06   |
  |        29 |  68.2 |  670  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  68.4 |  720  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  68.4 | 1285  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  68.0 |  790  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  68.1 |  830  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  68.5 | 1335  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  68.5 | 1250  | 1026 |⎬   8.27   |    0.360  |    1.17   |
  |         5 |  69.0 | 1160  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  69.0 | 1150  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  68.5 | 1210  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  68.0 |  935  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  68.0 |  975  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  68.2 |  990  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  68.6 |  870  | 1032 |⎬  10.40   |    0.582  |           |
  |        12 |  69.0 | 1130  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  69.4 | 1440  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  69.0 |  715  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  69.0 |  940  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  68.0 | 1070  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  68.1 | 1080  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  68.0 |  945  | 1029 |⎬  11.80   |    0.510  |           |
  |        19 |  68.2 | 1010  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  68.3 |  925  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  69.0 | 1200  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  68.6 | 1165  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  68.2 | 1170  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  68.6 | 1035  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  68.4 | 1735  | 1016 |⎬   7.53   |    0.640  |           |
  |        26 |  69.0 |  775  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  68.6 | 1090  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  69.0 | 1020  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  69.0 | 1935  | 1016 |    8.36   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  68.7 |  840  | 1029 |    6.80   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  68.4 | 1160  | 1023 |    8.28   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  68.2 |  920  | 1026 |    7.37   |⎬   0.521  |           |
  |         4 |  68.0 | 1000  | 1029 |    8.22   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  68.0 | 1645  | 1018 |    8.09   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  68.0 | 1020  | 1030 |    8.20   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  68.0 |  740  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  68.2 | 1470  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  68.0 | 1660  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  68.0 | 2040  | 1014 |⎬   8.21   |    0.455  |           |
  |        11 |  68.0 | 1030  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  68.2 | 2450  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  68.6 | 2300  | 1014 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  68.4 |  925  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  68.4 | 1610  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  68.5 | 1360  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  68.0 |       |      |⎬   8.82   |    0.483  |           |
  |        18 |  68.6 | 1975  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  69.0 | 2410  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  69.3 | 2480  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  68.6 |  850  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  68.7 | 1800  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  68.7 |  980  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  69.0 | 1040  | 1030 |⎬   8.64   |    0.632  |           |
  |        25 |  69.2 | 1360  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  69.2 | 2470  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  69.3 | 2110  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  69.4 | 1415  | 1020 |    8.40   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  69.4 | 1815  | 1019 |    9.04   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  69.4 | 1600  | 1017 |    5.95   |⎬   0.337  |           |
  |        31 |  69.0 | 1390  | 1018 |    5.42   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  69.0 | 1930  | 1015 |    6.60   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  69.5 | 1405  | 1012 |    3.20   |           |           |
  |         3 |  71.0 | 1330  | 1018 |    7.42   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 1           | 1102  | 1024 |    8.91   |    0.488  |    1.42   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


FRITZ.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  76.0 | 1000  | 1024 |   11.34   |    1.14   |           |
  |         2 |  76.4 |  950  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  77.8 | 2200  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  76.0 |  960  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  76.5 | 1420  | 1015 |⎬   8.97   |    0.418  |    1.45   |
  |         6 |  76.4 |  720  | 1018 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |         7 |  75.8 |  940  | 1020 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |         8 |  75.3 | 1580  | 1012 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  75.3 | 2240  | 1012 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  75.6 |  480  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  76.0 | 1600  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  76.2 | 1640  | 1013 |⎬   8.27   |    0.491  |    1.31   |
  |        13 |  76.2 |  880  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  75.8 | 1320  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  75.3 | 2000  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  75.6 |  760  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  75.6 | 1520  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  76.0 | 1740  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  75.1 | 1580  | 1015 |⎬   8.13   |    0.528  |    1.54   |
  |        20 |  76.0 | 1800  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  75.7 | 1140  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  75.7 | 1440  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  76.0 | 2060  | 1011 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  76.2 | 2360  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  75.6 | 2380  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  75.8 | 2200  | 1013 |⎬   8.68   |    0.555  |    1.63   |
  |        27 |  77.2 | 1200  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  75.5 |  920  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  75.9 | 1240  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  75.4 |  700  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  75.7 | 1480  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  75.9 | 1160  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  75.5 | 1480  | 1009 |⎬   8.16   |    0.656  |    1.74   |
  |         4 |  75.6 | 1860  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  76.2 | 1480  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  76.5 | 1460  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  75.7 |  800  | 1024 |    5.81   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  75.6 |  880  | 1023 |   10.61   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  76.0 |       |      |           |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  76.0 | 1840  | 1016 |   12.91   |⎬   0.746  |    1.97   |
  |        11 |  75.6 | 1240  | 1017 |   10.04   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  75.4 | 1740  | 1013 |    8.31   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  75.4 | 1400  | 1018 |    7.72   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  74.5 | 1260  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  74.9 | 1040  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  75.0 | 1390  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  75.2 | 1220  | 1015 |⎬   8.13   |    0.624  |    1.65   |
  |        18 |  75.0 | 1520  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  75.2 | 1380  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  75.0 |  890  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  74.8 | 1315  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  74.8 |  880  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  74.6 | 1135  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  74.6 | 1596  | 1006 |⎬   7.42   |    0.584  |           |
  |        25 |  74.6 | 1300  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  75.0 | 1090  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  75.0 | 1520  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  74.0 | 1150  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  74.0 | 1250  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  74.4 | 1610  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  74.5 | 1025  | 1024 |⎬   7.27   |    0.592  |    1.41   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  74.2 | 1620  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  73.6 | 1990  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  73.7 | 1036  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  74.0 | 2070  | 1011 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  74.1 | 1320  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  73.9 | 1690  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  74.0 |       |      |⎬   8.06   |    0.650  |    1.73   |
  |         8 |  73.4 | 1940  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  73.6 | 1560  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  74.0 | 2200  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  74.0 | 1300  | 1019 |   10.29   |           |           |
  |        12 |  73.7 |  810  | 1023 |    8.99   |    1.100  |           |
  |        13 |  74.0 |  680  | 1024 |    6.49   |    0.691  |           |
  |        14 |  73.3 | 1230  | 1019 |   10.26   |    0.998  |           |
  |        15 |  73.6 | 1030  | 1024 |    7.97   |    0.730  |           |
  |        16 |  73.9 | 1045  | 1015 |    5.20   |    0.466  |           |
  |        17 |  73.9 | 1910  | 1014 |    9.40   |    0.673  |           |
  |        18 |  73.0 | 1060  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  73.0 | 1510  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  73.4 |  865  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  73.4 | 1410  | 1020 |⎬   7.01   |    0.631  |    1.23   |
  |        22 |  73.0 |  610  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  73.0 | 1630  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  72.4 | 1125  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  72.6 | 2400  | 1011 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  72.8 | 2100  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  72.6 |  795  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  73.0 | 1425  | 1019 |⎬   8.13   |    0.722  |    1.64   |
  |        29 |  73.0 | 1770  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  73.2 | 1910  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  73.0 | 2180  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  73.2 | 2075  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  73.1 | 2280  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  73.0 | 2360  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  73.4 | 2200  | 1012 |⎬   7.24   |    0.532  |    1.74   |
  |         5 |  73.0 | 1600  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  73.3 | 1745  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  73.0 |  745  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  73.5 | 2280  | 1012 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  73.2 | 2150  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  73.1 | 1985  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  73.4 | 2240  | 1010 |⎬   9.02   |    0.699  |           |
  |        12 |  73.0 | 2020  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  73.6 | 1800  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  73.0 | 1355  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  73.0 | 1280  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  73.5 | 2440  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  73.4 | 1380  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  73.6 | 1840  | 1020 |⎬   8.43   |    0.632  |           |
  |        19 |  73.6 | 2340  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  73.6 | 2480  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  73.4 |  850  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  73.3 | 1985  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  73.4 | 1535  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  73.5 | 1940  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  73.5 | 1520  | 1017 |⎬   7.68   |    0.799  |           |
  |        26 |  73.3 | 1030  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  73.0 | 2270  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  73.0 | 1660  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  72.8 | 1165  | 1020 |    6.22   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  73.2 | 1240  | 1020 |    7.44   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  73.2 |  915  | 1022 |    3.96   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  73.2 | 1740  | 1015 |    7.05   |⎬   0.500  |           |
  |         4 |  72.8 |       |      |           |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  72.4 | 1670  | 1019 |    8.71   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  72.6 | 1245  | 1020 |    4.78   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  72.2 | 1900  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  72.6 | 1250  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  72.0 | 1660  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  72.6 | 1900  | 1017 |⎬   7.96   |    0.657  |           |
  |        11 |  72.5 | 2000  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  72.6 | 2130  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  72.4 | 2430  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  72.8 | 1100  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  73.0 | 1950  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  73.2 | 2010  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  72.8 | 1790  | 1013 |⎬   6.94   |    0.511  |           |
  |        18 |  72.6 | 1920  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  73.2 | 2150  | 1008 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  73.0 | 1355  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  73.0 | 1670  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  73.2 | 1640  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  73.0 | 2490  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  73.0 | 1840  | 1010 |⎬   6.96   |    0.685  |           |
  |        25 |  73.0 | 1340  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  72.8 | 2040  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  72.6 | 2320  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  73.0 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |        29 |  72.8 | 1600  | 1014 |    5.09   |⎫          |           |
  |        30 |  72.9 | 1480  | 1018 |    7.10   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |  72.8 | 1960  | 1016 |    5.18   |⎬   0.473  |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  72.6 | 2080  | 1013 |    5.74   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  72.5 | 2070  | 1010 |    3.35   |⎭          |           |
  |         3 |  72.6 | 1920  | 1018 |    6.68   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 2           | 1566  | 1016 |    7.84   |    0.642  |    1.58   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


COHN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Nov.   15 |  65.0 | 1140  | 1019 |   11.22   |           |           |
  |        16 |  65.1 |  840  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  65.6 | 1280  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  65.5 | 1420  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  65.1 | 1500  | 1020 |⎬  10.86   |    0.605  |    1.60   |
  |        20 |  65.9 | 1540  | 1021 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        21 |  66.2 | 1340  | 1012 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        22 |  65.6 |  840  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  65.5 | 1040  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  65.9 | 1260  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  66.1 | 1500  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  65.8 |  800  | 1027 |⎬   8.85   |    0.542  |    1.26   |
  |        27 |  65.3 |  840  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  65.4 |  940  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  65.7 | 1200  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  65.6 | 1480  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  64.8 |  740  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  65.3 |  600  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  64.8 |  920  | 1023 |⎬   9.89   |    0.621  |    1.51   |
  |         4 |  65.0 |  940  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  64.8 |  680  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  64.8 | 1460  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  64.9 |  940  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  65.0 |  900  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  65.0 | 1040  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  64.9 |  960  | 1021 |⎬   8.60   |    0.392  |    1.32   |
  |        11 |  64.0 |  580  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  64.8 |  860  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  64.0 |  660  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  64.0 | 1060  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  63.9 |  880  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  63.9 |  470  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  63.9 |  760  | 1026 |⎬   7.29   |    0.424  |    1.29   |
  |        18 |  64.3 | 1180  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  64.4 | 1760  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  64.0 | 1100  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  64.4 |  615  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  64.0 | 1050  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  64.0 |  860  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  64.2 | 1420  | 1019 |⎬   7.50   |    0.424  |           |
  |        25 |  64.2 | 1690  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  64.0 |  740  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  63.9 | 1370  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  63.7 |  690  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  63.6 | 1065  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  64.0 |  960  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  64.0 |  700  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎬   7.70   |    0.358  |    0.90   |
  | Jan.    1 |  63.4 | 1630  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  63.5 |  460  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  63.0 |  970  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  63.4 | 1365  | 1012 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  63.5 |  980  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  64.0 | 1175  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  64.1 | 1250  | 1017 |⎬   8.03   |    0.498  |    1.12   |
  |         8 |  64.0 | 1500  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  63.3 |  920  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  63.3 | 1250  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  63.3 |  880  | 1022 |    8.08   |           |           |
  |        12 |  62.8 |  510  | 1026 |    6.49   |    0.510  |           |
  |        13 |  63.0 |  900  | 1024 |    9.10   |    0.679  |           |
  |        14 |  62.8 |  630  | 1026 |    7.33   |    0.523  |           |
  |        15 |  62.4 |  950  | 1025 |    8.04   |    0.497  |           |
  |        16 |  62.6 | 1300  | 1018 |    8.58   |    0.473  |           |
  |        17 |  62.4 |  905  | 1026 |    7.44   |    0.431  |           |
  |        18 |  62.0 |  835  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  62.7 | 1510  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  63.0 |  980  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  62.4 |  935  | 1026 |⎬   8.97   |    0.552  |    1.43   |
  |        22 |  62.6 | 1610  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  62.7 |  970  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  62.2 | 1275  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  63.0 | 1600  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  62.3 |  770  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  62.2 |  940  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  62.4 |  980  | 1021 |⎬   7.34   |    0.539  |    1.30   |
  |        29 |  62.0 |  705  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  62.9 |  890  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  63.4 | 1560  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  63.5 | 1040  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  63.4 |  960  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  63.0 | 1500  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  63.2 | 1430  | 1023 |⎬   8.15   |    0.532  |    1.37   |
  |         5 |  63.6 | 1890  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  63.0 |  730  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  63.0 |  920  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  63.3 |  935  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  64.0 | 1625  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  63.5 | 1615  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  64.0 | 1325  | 1020 |⎬   8.00   |    0.522  |           |
  |        12 |  64.0 | 1275  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  64.0 |  770  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  63.4 |  940  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  63.5 | 1300  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  63.1 | 1430  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  63.6 | 1280  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  63.3 |  870  | 1025 |⎬   8.59   |    0.510  |           |
  |        19 |  63.2 | 1250  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  63.1 | 1250  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  63.5 |  900  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  63.3 | 1345  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  63.5 | 1185  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  63.3 | 1560  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  63.4 | 1200  | 1015 |⎬   8.45   |    0.633  |           |
  |        26 |  63.0 |  750  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  63.5 | 1140  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  63.4 | 1220  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  63.6 | 1160  | 1023 |    9.74   |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  63.5 |  900  | 1025 |    6.86   |           |           |
  |         2 |  63.5 | 1030  | 1020 |    7.29   |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.7 |  920  | 1021 |    6.40   |    0.480  |           |
  |         4 |  62.7 | 1225  | 1014 |    5.59   |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.5 | 1170  | 1026 |    9.55   |           |           |
  |         6 |  62.6 |  940  | 1025 |    6.77   |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.5 |  900  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  63.0 | 1230  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  62.7 | 1260  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  62.5 |  980  | 1019 |⎬   8.41   |    0.608  |           |
  |        11 |  62.4 | 1150  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  62.4 |  830  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  62.4 | 1500  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  62.0 |  825  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  62.5 | 1200  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  62.5 | 1490  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  62.5 | 1145  | 1021 |⎬   7.59   |    0.488  |           |
  |        18 |  63.7 |  975  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  63.0 |  825  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  63.5 | 1450  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  63.6 | 1480  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  63.0 | 1100  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  62.6 | 1050  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  62.7 | 1050  | 1025 |⎬   7.74   |    0.654  |           |
  |        25 |  62.0 |  900  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  62.4 |  750  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  62.6 | 1530  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  62.0 | 1060  | 1023 |    6.61   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  62.4 | 1460  | 1020 |    6.48   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  62.4 | 1020  | 1023 |    6.36   |⎬   0.399  |           |
  |        31 |  62.6 | 1730  | 1022 |    7.47   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  62.4 |  895  | 1022 |    4.35   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  62.4 | 1465  | 1014 |    5.11   |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.6 | 1165  | 1023 |    9.37   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 22          | 1092  | 1022 |    8.05   |    0.512  |    1.28   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


LOEWENTHAL.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  60.1 |  960  | 1025 |   15.78   |    0.606  |    1.78   |
  |         5 |  60.1 |  780  | 1025 |   10.90   |           |           |
  |         6 |  60.3 |  820  | 1024 |   11.23   |    0.576  |    0.96   |
  |         7 |  60.0 |  980  | 1022 |   14.99   |           |           |
  |         8 |  60.0 | 1080  | 1019 |   11.34   |    0.351  |    1.55   |
  |         9 |  60.0 |  990  | 1025 |   13.07   |           |           |
  |        10 |  60.0 | 1120  | 1021 |   12.37   |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.8 |  930  | 1019 |   10.83   |    0.389  |    1.05   |
  |        12 |  60.4 | 1580  | 1022 |   17.06   |           |           |
  |        13 |  60.2 | 1380  | 1017 |   13.00   |    0.516  |    2.13   |
  |        14 |  61.0 |  640  | 1026 |    7.41   |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.2 | 1220  | 1026 |   15.66   |    0.674  |    1.68   |
  |        16 |  60.8 | 1060  | 1024 |   15.01   |           |           |
  |        17 |  60.5 | 1130  | 1021 |   13.63   |           |           |
  |        18 |  60.4 | 1580  | 1016 |   12.70   |    0.520  |    1.59   |
  |        19 |  60.0 | 1350  | 1022 |   17.82   |           |           |
  |        20 |  59.8 | 1250  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  60.0 | 1120  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  60.4 | 1060  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.0 | 1800  | 1020 |⎬  13.72   |    0.489  |    1.95   |
  |        24 |  61.2 | 1320  | 1021 |⎪ daily av.|  daily av.|  daily av.|
  |        25 |  61.4 | 1620  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  62.4 | 1160  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  62.6 | 1520  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  62.6 |  860  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  63.4 |  660  | 1024 |⎬   9.80   |    0.430  |    1.40   |
  |        30 |  62.5 | 1200  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  62.2 |  920  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  62.4 | 1050  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  62.6 | 1330  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.0 | 1020  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  61.8 |  920  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.4 |  580  | 1029 |⎬   8.23   |    0.401  |    1.60   |
  |         6 |  62.4 | 1400  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.0 |  780  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  61.9 |  760  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  61.8 |  840  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  60.5 |  440  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  61.0 | 1060  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  61.2 |  880  | 1027 |⎬   8.28   |    0.390  |    1.34   |
  |        13 |  61.4 |  320  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  61.4 |  660  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.2 | 1020  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.4 |  960  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  61.0 |  680  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  61.0 |  940  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  60.9 |  880  | 1024 |⎬   8.62   |    0.349  |    1.30   |
  |        20 |  61.5 | 1540  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  61.7 | 1220  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  61.2 | 1120  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.1 | 1440  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  60.2 |  840  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  60.3 |  680  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  60.8 |  900  | 1022 |⎬   8.36   |    0.392  |    1.43   |
  |        27 |  60.5 |  860  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  60.3 |  800  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  60.3 | 1040  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  60.8 | 1040  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  60.4 | 1120  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  60.0 |  660  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.9 |  900  | 1022 |⎬   7.59   |    0.408  |    1.26   |
  |         4 |  59.5 | 1120  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  59.0 |  400  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.6 |  480  | 1033 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.2 |  960  | 1027 |    9.03   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  58.0 |  800  | 1020 |    8.78   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  58.6 |  700  | 1028 |   10.04   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  60.0 | 1000  | 1019 |    9.06   |⎬   0.379  |    1.49   |
  |        11 |  60.0 |  800  | 1025 |    8.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  60.0 |  680  | 1032 |    7.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  59.5 |  620  | 1030 |    7.74   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  59.5 |  940  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.0 |  920  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.6 |  690  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.3 |  800  | 1020 |⎬   6.90   |    0.408  |    1.14   |
  |        18 |  59.7 | 1145  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  59.7 | 1110  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  59.0 |  840  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.0 |  775  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.4 |  510  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.2 |  700  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.0 |  890  | 1015 |⎬   6.29   |    0.275  |           |
  |        25 |  58.3 |  900  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.0 |  930  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.4 |  990  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.5 |  672  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.4 |  795  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  59.0 |  870  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  58.8 |  920  | 1027 |⎬   6.92   |    0.515  |    1.17   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  58.7 | 1340  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.2 | 1232  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.6 |  842  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.8 | 1030  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  58.6 | 1020  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.8 |  890  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  59.0 | 1350  | 1016 |⎬   7.27   |    0.344  |    0.97   |
  |         8 |  57.7 |  900  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.0 |  735  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  57.9 |  760  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  58.0 |  795  | 1021 |    6.68   |           |           |
  |        12 |  58.2 | 1110  | 1017 |    7.33   |    0.383  |           |
  |        13 |  58.1 | 1190  | 1015 |    7.64   |    0.379  |           |
  |        14 |  57.0 |  620  | 1027 |    6.21   |    0.415  |           |
  |        15 |  57.2 |  825  | 1028 |    8.18   |    0.409  |           |
  |        16 |  57.8 | 1100  | 1019 |    7.92   |    0.305  |           |
  |        17 |  57.5 | 1185  | 1021 |    7.26   |    0.338  |           |
  |        18 |  57.3 |  630  | 1019 |           |           |           |
  |        19 |  57.5 |  525  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.0 | 1050  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.7 |  790  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.7 |  850  | 1030 |⎬   6.84   |    0.321  |    0.99   |
  |        23 |  57.4 |  605  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  57.4 |  800  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  57.9 | 1050  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.0 |  850  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.2 | 1270  | 1018 |⎬   6.83   |    0.312  |    1.14   |
  |        28 |  59.0 | 1255  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.0 |  615  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  58.0 | 1025  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        31 |  58.6 | 1120  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  58.4 | 1025  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.7 | 1300  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.4 | 1170  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.4 | 1350  | 1029 |⎬   7.27   |    0.411  |    1.57   |
  |         5 |  59.0 | 1250  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.8 | 1160  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.4 |  825  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.5 |  830  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.5 | 1095  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  59.0 | 1140  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.2 | 1330  | 1020 |⎬   7.61   |    0.416  |           |
  |        12 |  58.5 | 1020  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.0 | 1075  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.0 | 1030  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.3 | 1150  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.4 | 1270  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  58.6 | 1490  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.0 | 1060  | 1027 |⎬   8.00   |    0.336  |           |
  |        19 |  58.8 |  620  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.9 |  930  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.1 |  885  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.3 | 1320  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  59.4 | 1490  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  59.4 | 1195  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  59.4 | 2100  | 1011 |⎬   6.84   |    0.449  |           |
  |        26 |  58.4 |  860  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.4 |  955  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.4 | 1045  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.2 | 1000  | 1027 |    7.38   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  58.6 | 1040  | 1024 |    7.05   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  58.5 |  880  | 1028 |    7.07   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  58.7 |  890  | 1026 |    7.85   |⎬   0.348  |           |
  |         4 |  58.5 |  965  | 1026 |    7.35   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  58.6 |  730  | 1022 |    4.29   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  58.7 | 1170  | 1027 |    8.07   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  58.3 |  920  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.9 |  970  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.8 |  940  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.9 | 1600  | 1017 |⎬   6.97   |    0.333  |           |
  |        11 |  59.0 | 1290  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  59.0 |  820  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  58.9 |  990  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.5 | 1620  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.0 | 1250  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  59.0 | 1360  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.1 | 1160  | 1021 |⎬   7.34   |    0.265  |           |
  |        18 |  59.0 | 1450  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  59.1 | 1650  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  59.0 | 1350  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  59.0 | 1110  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.8 | 1250  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.6 | 1150  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  58.6 |  760  | 1025 |⎬   6.37   |    0.427  |           |
  |        25 |  59.0 | 1100  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.6 |  990  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  58.5 | 1150  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.6 | 1175  | 1024 |    6.27   |⎫          |           |
  |        29 |  59.0 | 1295  | 1025 |    7.54   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  59.0 | 1570  | 1018 |    7.07   |⎬   0.341  |           |
  |        31 |  59.2 | 1120  | 1024 |    5.24   |⎪          |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  59.0 | 1260  | 1022 |    6.43   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  59.0 | 1550  | 1020 |    6.33   |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.0 | 1710  | 1022 |    9.85   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 2           | 1007  | 1024 |    7.83   |    0.372  |    1.28   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


ZOOMAN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  54.0 |  540  | 1026 |    8.88   |    0.434  |    0.56   |
  |         5 |  54.0 |  940  | 1027 |   15.28   |           |           |
  |         6 |  53.6 | 1140  | 1024 |   16.42   |    0.730  |    2.21   |
  |         7 |  54.5 | 1640  | 1016 |   17.52   |           |           |
  |         8 |  54.4 |  930  | 1017 |   10.10   |    0.275  |    1.21   |
  |         9 |  54.4 | 1160  | 1022 |   15.80   |           |           |
  |        10 |  54.3 | 1080  | 1019 |   15.24   |           |           |
  |        11 |  54.5 | 1340  | 1014 |   13.65   |    0.450  |    1.73   |
  |        12 |  54.8 | 1080  | 1022 |   11.73   |           |           |
  |        13 |  55.4 | 1140  | 1022 |   13.48   |    0.839  |    1.70   |
  |        14 |  55.7 | 1020  | 1018 |    9.85   |           |           |
  |        15 |  55.2 | 1560  | 1021 |   20.40   |    0.779  |    2.92   |
  |        16 |  56.0 | 1240  | 1024 |   17.33   |           |           |
  |        17 |  55.6 | 1070  | 1025 |   16.11   |           |           |
  |        18 |  55.6 | 1730  | 1017 |   20.86   |    0.736  |    2.26   |
  |        19 |  55.4 | 1370  | 1020 |   18.57   |           |           |
  |        20 |  55.6 | 1290  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  55.6 | 1120  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  55.8 | 1140  | 1023 |⎬  15.38   |    0.683  |    1.87   |
  |        23 |  55.9 | 1120  | 1025 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        24 |  56.2 | 1600  | 1020 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        25 |  56.5 | 1620  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  56.6 | 1140  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  56.6 | 1770  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  56.6 |  960  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  57.3 | 1120  | 1019 |⎬  11.70   |    0.583  |    1.56   |
  |        30 |  56.8 | 1160  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  57.0 |  820  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  56.9 | 1730  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  56.5 |  750  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  57.1 | 1380  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.1 | 1040  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  56.6 |  900  | 1018 |⎬  10.01   |    0.564  |    1.39   |
  |         6 |  56.6 | 1220  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.2 |  640  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  55.8 |  900  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  56.1 | 1100  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.2 |  680  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  56.4 |  660  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  56.7 | 1320  | 1024 |⎬   8.76   |    0.512  |    1.33   |
  |        13 |  56.7 |  420  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  56.0 |  920  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  56.0 | 1540  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  55.7 | 1080  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  54.4 |  700  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  54.6 |  700  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  54.8 |  700  | 1025 |⎬   7.79   |    0.398  |    1.02   |
  |        20 |  55.4 |  940  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  55.2 |  740  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  54.7 |  720  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  54.5 |  740  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  54.0 |  860  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  54.3 |  620  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  54.4 |  980  | 1023 |⎬   7.44   |    0.420  |    1.06   |
  |        27 |  54.5 |  940  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  54.3 |  460  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  54.4 | 1000  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  54.0 |  980  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  54.2 | 1120  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  54.2 |  940  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  54.0 | 1200  | 1018 |⎬  10.26   |    0.494  |    1.45   |
  |         4 |  54.0 | 1080  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  53.9 |  640  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  54.0 |  960  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  54.1 |  880  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  54.6 |  680  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  54.6 |  680  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  55.0 | 1220  | 1019 |⎬  10.15   |    0.423  |    1.39   |
  |        11 |  54.7 |  920  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  55.1 |  780  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  54.7 | 1140  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  54.4 |  840  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  54.0 | 1200  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  54.0 |  860  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  54.5 | 1140  | 1018 |⎬   7.66   |    0.389  |    1.20   |
  |        18 |  54.0 |  820  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  54.1 |  980  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  54.0 |  885  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  54.0 |  660  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  53.5 |  570  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  54.0 |  770  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  54.0 |  920  | 1025 |⎬   8.26   |    0.401  |    0.78   |
  |        25 |  54.3 | 1320  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  54.7 | 1075  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  54.5 | 1240  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  54.1 |  880  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  54.0 | 1080  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  54.3 |  775  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  54.4 | 1010  | 1023 |⎬   8.00   |    0.440  |    0.88   |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Jan.    1 |  54.0 |  900  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  53.6 |  625  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  53.9 |  730  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  53.0 | 1030  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  53.4 | 1100  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  54.0 |  980  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  54.0 |  860  | 1022 |⎬   7.24   |    0.379  |    1.15   |
  |         8 |  54.0 |  960  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  53.5 |  695  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  54.0 |  980  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  53.5 |  930  | 1020 |    8.98   |    0.632  |           |
  |        12 |  53.8 | 1030  | 1023 |   11.31   |    0.657  |           |
  |        13 |  53.6 |  980  | 1024 |   11.63   |    0.445  |           |
  |        14 |  53.5 | 1150  | 1017 |    9.38   |    0.443  |           |
  |        15 |  53.0 |  700  | 1030 |    8.44   |    0.442  |           |
  |        16 |  53.4 |  920  | 1020 |    8.89   |    0.381  |           |
  |        17 |  53.5 | 1270  | 1019 |    8.99   |           |           |
  |        18 |  53.5 | 1180  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  53.6 |  755  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  53.6 | 1190  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  53.0 |  800  | 1030 |⎬   7.78   |    0.428  |    1.27   |
  |        22 |  53.2 |  660  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  53.4 |  770  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  53.4 | 1035  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  53.6 | 1250  | 1013 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  54.0 | 1140  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  54.2 | 1170  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  54.6 | 1120  | 1018 |⎬   6.87   |    0.302  |    1.18   |
  |        29 |  54.5 |  690  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  54.5 | 1020  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  54.8 | 1320  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  54.3 | 1060  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  54.5 | 1170  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  54.5 | 1350  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  54.3 | 1280  | 1022 |⎬   8.15   |    0.405  |    1.31   |
  |         5 |  54.0 | 1015  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  54.6 | 1610  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  54.3 | 1010  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  54.6 | 1065  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  55.0 |  925  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  55.0 | 1195  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  55.0 |  880  | 1024 |⎬   8.37   |    0.497  |           |
  |        12 |  55.0 |  960  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  55.2 | 1565  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  55.0 | 1415  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  55.0 | 1060  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  54.8 | 1130  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  55.0 | 1910  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  55.2 | 1260  | 1020 |⎬   9.34   |    0.408  |           |
  |        19 |  55.0 |  970  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  54.4 |  670  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  54.7 | 1070  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  54.4 |  760  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  54.6 | 1225  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  55.2 | 1050  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  55.2 |  730  | 1027 |⎬   7.38   |    0.559  |           |
  |        26 |  55.4 | 1145  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  55.0 |  990  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  54.9 |  985  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  55.0 |  765  | 1027 |    7.02   |⎫          |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  55.3 |  810  | 1024 |    6.66   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  55.0 |  880  | 1027 |    7.26   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  54.8 | 1020  | 1020 |    7.59   |⎬   0.401  |           |
  |         4 |  54.5 |  955  | 1025 |    7.51   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  54.0 | 1035  | 1020 |    7.08   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |  54.0 |  880  | 1027 |    6.81   |⎭          |           |
  |         7 |  54.7 |  885  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  55.0 |  970  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  54.6 |  940  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  54.7 | 1460  | 1022 |⎬   8.24   |    0.428  |           |
  |        11 |  55.0 | 1340  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  54.7 | 1180  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  55.0 | 1040  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  55.0 | 1270  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  54.8 |  900  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  55.0 | 1145  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  55.0 | 1155  | 1018 |⎬   7.90   |    0.455  |           |
  |        18 |  53.0 | 1480  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  55.2 | 1355  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  54.6 | 1000  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  54.7 |  750  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  55.0 | 1270  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  55.0 | 1090  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  55.0 | 1080  | 1025 |⎬   7.57   |    0.586  |           |
  |        25 |  54.8 | 1080  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  55.0 |  980  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  55.2 | 1110  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  55.2 | 1270  | 1019 |    7.47   |           |           |
  |        29 |  55.2 | 1160  | 1024 |    7.80   |           |           |
  |        30 |  55.0 | 1140  | 1018 |    5.40   |           |           |
  |        31 |  55.3 | 1340  | 1024 |    8.04   |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  55.0 | 1480  | 1019 |    8.44   |           |           |
  |         2 |  55.1 | 1300  | 1023 |    7.10   |           |           |
  |         3 |  55.0 | 1445  | 1018 |    8.15   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Nov. 2           | 1008  | 1022 |    8.25   |    0.457  |    1.19   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


BATES.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  72.7 |  870  | 1033 |   14.56   |    0.651  |    2.18   |
  |         5 |  72.7 | 1120  | 1022 |   13.13   |           |           |
  |         6 |  72.4 |  760  | 1027 |    9.44   |    0.489  |    1.38   |
  |         7 |  72.3 |  920  | 1022 |   12.86   |           |           |
  |         8 |  72.0 |  630  | 1029 |   11.11   |    0.415  |    1.29   |
  |         9 |  72.0 | 1030  | 1025 |           |           |           |
  |        10 |  72.0 | 1230  | 1022 |   14.46   |           |           |
  |        11 |  72.3 |  740  | 1024 |   10.79   |    0.397  |    1.44   |
  |        12 |  72.3 |  860  | 1024 |   10.54   |           |           |
  |        13 |  72.1 | 1040  | 1025 |   14.23   |    0.769  |    2.46   |
  |        14 |  72.3 | 1010  | 1027 |   13.70   |           |           |
  |        15 |  72.4 | 1300  | 1021 |   14.43   |    0.510  |    1.88   |
  |        16 |  72.4 | 1040  | 1025 |   15.35   |           |           |
  |        17 |  72.4 | 1440  | 1020 |   16.33   |           |           |
  |        18 |  72.2 | 1420  | 1021 |   18.66   |    0.657  |    2.51   |
  |        19 |  71.8 |  780  | 1026 |   13.14   |           |           |
  |        20 |  71.3 | 1060  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  72.0 | 1020  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  72.5 | 1080  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  72.4 | 1200  | 1024 |⎬  14.21   |    0.517  |    1.26   |
  |        24 |  72.4 | 1100  | 1025 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        25 |  72.4 | 1030  | 1024 |⎭  average |   average |   average |
  |        26 |  72.4 | 1060  |      |           |           |           |
  |        27 |  72.6 | 1020  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        28 |  72.4 |  720  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  72.4 |  400  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  72.3 |  720  | 1027 |⎬   9.20   |    0.409  |    1.27   |
  |        31 |  72.3 |  720  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  72.3 |  820  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  72.0 |  960  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  72.4 |  920  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  71.9 |  700  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  71.6 |  900  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  71.5 |  700  | 1029 |⎬   9.01   |    0.487  |    1.53   |
  |         7 |  70.5 |  600  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  70.0 |  680  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  70.3 |  660  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  70.6 |  660  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  70.6 |  560  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  71.0 |  740  | 1027 |⎬   7.97   |    0.460  |    1.20   |
  |        13 |  71.0 |  660  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  70.6 |  480  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  70.4 |  800  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  70.8 |  860  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  70.0 |  860  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  69.8 |  540  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  69.4 |  700  | 1026 |⎬   6.94   |    0.374  |    1.04   |
  |        20 |  70.3 | 1080  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  70.2 |  640  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  69.3 |  720  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  69.1 |  720  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  68.7 |  600  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  68.7 |  620  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  69.0 |  840  | 1031 |⎬   8.04   |    0.394  |    1.56   |
  |        27 |  68.6 |  820  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  67.9 |  800  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  69.4 |  700  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  69.0 |  780  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  68.5 |  760  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  68.7 |  640  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  68.1 |  940  | 1027 |⎬   8.24   |    0.393  |    1.37   |
  |         4 |  69.0 |  540  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  68.0 | 1360  | 1011 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  69.0 |  880  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  67.9 |  960  | 1026 |   10.14   |⎫          |           |
  |         8 |  68.2 |  700  | 1026 |    7.85   |⎪          |           |
  |         9 |  68.0 |  800  | 1025 |   10.45   |⎪          |           |
  |        10 |  68.7 |  700  | 1027 |    8.74   |⎬   0.392  |    1.57   |
  |        11 |  67.9 |  780  | 1028 |    9.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  68.0 |  820  | 1029 |    8.85   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  67.6 |  860  | 1028 |    9.44   |⎭          |           |
  |        14 |  67.8 |  700  | 1029 |    7.36   |           |           |
  |        15 |  67.4 |  540  | 1028 |    6.51   |           |           |
  |        16 |  67.4 |  640  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  67.6 |  680  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  68.8 | 1000  | 1023 |⎬   7.61   |    0.367  |    1.36   |
  |        19 |  68.3 |  800  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  67.0 |  660  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  67.0 |  595  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  66.2 |  560  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  66.5 |  660  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  66.4 |  610  | 1021 |⎬   6.77   |    0.345  |           |
  |        25 |  65.6 | 1057  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  66.0 |  700  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  66.2 |  755  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  65.8 |  740  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  65.5 |  710  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  66.0 |  900  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  65.7 |  710  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎬   6.53   |    0.269  |    0.80   |
  | Jan.    1 |  65.7 |  690  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  65.3 | 1015  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  65.0 |  850  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  65.0 |  730  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  65.1 |  835  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  65.6 | 1045  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  66.2 |  900  | 1024 |⎬   8.54   |    0.405  |    1.13   |
  |         8 |  65.4 | 1030  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  66.0 |  840  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  66.0 |  965  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  65.8 |  700  | 1026 |    6.80   |           |           |
  |        12 |  66.5 |  740  | 1025 |    7.46   |    0.365  |           |
  |        13 |  65.2 |  630  | 1027 |    7.03   |    0.399  |           |
  |        14 |  64.5 |  550  | 1028 |    7.13   |    0.357  |           |
  |        15 |  64.6 |  680  | 1022 |    8.04   |    0.434  |           |
  |        16 |  65.0 |  620  | 1029 |    7.66   |    0.470  |           |
  |        17 |  65.0 |  925  | 1024 |    7.38   |    0.347  |           |
  |        18 |  65.0 |  590  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        19 |  65.0 |  650  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  64.8 |  575  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  64.4 |  735  | 1028 |⎬   6.69   |    0.356  |    0.80   |
  |        22 |  64.8 |  640  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  64.6 |  760  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  64.3 |  870  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        25 |  64.0 |  740  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  64.5 |  975  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  63.8 |  910  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  64.0 |  600  | 1030 |⎬   8.54   |    0.359  |    1.27   |
  |        29 |  63.8 | 1300  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  64.0 | 1135  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  64.0 | 1460  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  64.0 |  910  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  63.9 | 1250  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  63.5 | 1080  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  63.5 |  970  | 1024 |⎬   9.19   |    0.362  |    1.07   |
  |         5 |  63.6 | 1250  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  64.0 | 1260  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  64.0 |  785  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  64.6 | 1235  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  64.3 | 1460  | 1018 |⎭   9.94   |           |           |
  |        10 |  64.2 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |        11 |  64.3 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |        12 |  64.3 |       |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 27          |  805  | 1025 |    8.08   |    0.387  |    1.23   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


DAVIS.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1903   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Oct.    4 |  59.3 | 2030  | 1014 |   15.15   |    0.672  |    1.99   |
  |         5 |  59.3 | 1160  | 1020 |   10.99   |           |           |
  |         6 |  59.0 |  850  | 1024 |    9.38   |    0.503  |    1.26   |
  |         7 |  59.1 | 1860  | 1012 |   13.95   |           |           |
  |         8 |  59.3 |  960  | 1021 |    9.33   |    0.398  |    1.47   |
  |         9 |  58.3 |  900  | 1027 |   11.56   |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.3 | 1660  | 1017 |   17.23   |           |           |
  |        11 |  58.7 | 1460  | 1019 |   16.02   |    0.724  |    2.27   |
  |        12 |  58.5 | 1060  | 1022 |   11.82   |           |           |
  |        13 |  59.4 | 1920  | 1014 |   16.59   |    0.689  |    2.53   |
  |        14 |  59.4 | 1460  | 1022 |   13.14   |           |           |
  |        15 |  58.9 | 1320  | 1021 |   13.38   |    0.493  |    1.53   |
  |        16 |  58.9 | 1900  | 1015 |   17.10   |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.0 | 1410  | 1019 |   14.55   |           |           |
  |        18 |  59.5 | 1650  | 1017 |   15.25   |    0.647  |    1.92   |
  |        19 |  59.1 | 1120  | 1022 |   13.37   |           |           |
  |        20 |  58.2 | 1150  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.2 |  980  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  59.1 | 1320  | 1022 |⎬  11.56   |    0.480  |    1.50   |
  |        23 |  59.4 | 1320  | 1016 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        24 |  58.6 | 1160  | 1022 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        25 |  59.2 | 1300  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |  59.0 |  860  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        27 |  59.2 | 1240  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  59.4 | 1440  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  59.5 |  820  | 1022 |⎬   9.20   |    0.474  |    1.35   |
  |        30 |  59.4 | 1000  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  59.2 |  920  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  | Nov.    1 |  59.4 | 1120  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         2 |  58.7 |  840  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         3 |  59.1 | 1290  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  59.0 |  680  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  58.5 |  305  | 1027 |⎬   9.07   |    0.474  |    1.48   |
  |         6 |  58.4 |  700  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.7 |  780  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |  58.5 | 1720  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         9 |  58.2 | 1320  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.9 |  920  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  59.3 | 1640  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  58.9 |  780  | 1024 |⎬   8.33   |    0.422  |    1.38   |
  |        13 |  59.0 |  940  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  59.0 | 1180  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        15 |  59.0 | 1900  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        16 |  58.8 | 1080  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        17 |  59.0 | 1080  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  58.4 | 1500  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  58.2 | 1260  | 1018 |⎬   9.60   |    0.398  |    1.50   |
  |        20 |  58.1 | 1220  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  58.7 | 1120  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  58.7 | 1100  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |  58.6 | 1140  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  58.4 | 1360  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  58.3 | 1700  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.2 | 1120  | 1023 |⎬   9.00   |    0.447  |    1.52   |
  |        27 |  59.4 | 1620  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  58.0 |  700  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |  58.7 | 1660  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        30 |  58.5 |  800  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Dec.    1 |  58.0 |  700  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.4 |  680  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  57.0 |  640  | 1028 |⎬  11.41   |    0.417  |    2.12   |
  |         4 |  57.0 |  940  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  56.2 |  660  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  56.0 |  800  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.0 |  800  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  56.1 |  780  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.0 |  820  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.0 |  500  | 1025 |⎬   8.91   |    0.412  |    1.43   |
  |        11 |  57.1 |  580  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  57.3 |  820  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  57.8 |  580  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  57.5 |  740  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  57.5 | 1680  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  57.9 |  900  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  57.4 |  780  | 1013 |⎬   7.96   |    0.413  |    1.50   |
  |        18 |  56.9 |  800  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  57.4 |  730  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  57.4 |  800  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  57.4 | 1310  | 1017 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.0 | 1370  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.0 |  980  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  57.0 |  865  | 1016 |⎬   7.35   |    0.319  |           |
  |        25 |  57.4 | 1300  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  58.0 | 1390  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  57.3 | 1340  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  57.6 |  875  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  57.0 |  680  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  56.8 |  685  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  56.7 |  815  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |    1904   |       |       |      |⎬   6.83   |    0.413  |    0.99   |
  | Jan.    1 |  57.4 | 1150  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.9 | 1610  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  58.6 | 1120  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  58.3 | 1350  | 1011 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  57.8 | 1255  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  58.0 |  925  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  58.6 | 1120  | 1016 |⎬   7.04   |    0.372  |    0.95   |
  |         8 |  58.4 | 1350  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.7 |  890  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  58.6 | 1510  | 1012 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.9 |       |      |           |           |           |
  |        12 |  57.2 |  835  | 1017 |    8.32   |    0.408  |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Oct. 26          | 1045  | 1021 |    8.61   |    0.414  |    1.42   |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

Any elaborate discussion of the individual results, tabulated in the
foregoing tables, seems hardly necessary. To any one interested in the
details of the work, a study of the tables themselves will give the
necessary information. It may be well, however, to emphasize at once a
few of the fundamental points most striking in character which bear upon
the main problem. Take, for instance, the case of Oakman, where the data
are recorded for every day from October 4, 1903, to April 4, 1904. The
degree of proteid metabolism, as indicated by the excretion of nitrogen
through the kidneys, is here shown for each day of the six months. Up
to November 3, practically for a month, there was not observable any
very noticeable change in the rate of proteid metabolism, but commencing
with November 4, the nitrogen excretion dropped very rapidly, and as one
glances through the daily records for month after month, it is seen that
the daily nitrogen output through the kidneys fell to 6 to 8 grams per
day, with a daily average excretion of 7.42 grams of nitrogen, as figured
from October 21 to April 4.

Further, it will be noted that while the body-weight gradually declined
during the first three months, falling from 66.7 kilos down to 62.3 kilos
on January 18, from that date on to the close of the experiment the
body-weight was practically constant. Here, then, we see, under the use
of a prescribed diet quite sufficient in amount to satisfy the cravings
of the appetite, a lowering of proteid metabolism equal to that obtained
by the individuals of the preceding group. Again, if the body-weight of
Oakman is placed at 64 kilos, as representing the average between the
initial body-weight and the weight during the last three months, it will
be found that the output of metabolized nitrogen per kilo of body-weight
amounted to 0.116 gram; not widely different from similar data obtained
with men of the preceding group.

[Illustration: FRITZ

_Photograph taken at the close of the experiment._]

Moreover, these results obtained with Oakman are practically duplicated
by every other member of this group of soldiers detailed from the United
States Army. No exception whatever is to be seen, but every man shows
the same lowered proteid metabolism, with practical maintenance of
body-weight, with complete satisfying of the appetite, and without loss
of health, strength, or vigor, as will be enlarged upon later.

While in the case of Oakman, the nitrogen excreted was determined by an
analysis made each day, in the case of the other men of this group the
data are given mainly for weekly periods; the results being expressed,
however, in the average daily amount for each seven days’ period. By
comparing the figures for the daily excretion of nitrogen with the daily
dietary, it is easy to trace out the influence of the changes in diet on
the extent of nitrogen metabolism.

In considering the changes in the rate of proteid metabolism shown by all
the members of this group, it will suffice for present purposes to deal
mainly with the average results.

Compare now the average daily output of nitrogen through the urine from
November 1 until April 4—a period of five months—of each of these men.


AVERAGE DAILY OUTPUT OF NITROGEN.

  Morris        7.03 ⎫
  Steltz        7.13 ⎪
  Broyles       7.26 ⎪
  Loewenthal    7.38 ⎪
  Oakman        7.42 ⎪
  Fritz         7.84 ⎬ = 7.80 grams Nitrogen as
  Cohn          8.05 ⎪     the grand average.
  Coffman       8.17 ⎪
  Zooman        8.25 ⎪
  Sliney        8.39 ⎪
  Henderson     8.91 ⎭
  Bates         8.08—Oct. 27-Feb. 11.
  Davis         8.61—Oct. 26-Jan. 12.

The figures given show an astonishingly low proteid metabolism for the
five months’ period; 7.5 grams of nitrogen in the day’s urine correspond
to 46.8 grams of proteid metabolized, while 8.5 grams of nitrogen mean
the metabolism of 53.1 grams of proteid. In other words, all of these
men during a period of five months practically averaged a daily output of
nitrogen through the kidneys corresponding to the metabolism of less than
one-half the 105 grams of absorbable proteid called for by the so-called
standard diets. Further, close scrutiny of the results in the individual
tables shows that during many weeks much lower results were obtained than
is indicated by the general averages.

Just here emphasis should be laid upon one fact, doubtless of primary
importance in any modification of the rate or extent of metabolism in any
individual, viz., that in this experiment the daily diet was prescribed,
thereby taking from the individual freedom of choice in the selection
of food. The writer has no question in his own mind that an intelligent
choice of food, coupled with the satisfying of a natural or acquired
appetite in moderation, will lead to better results than any system of
prescription as to what shall be eaten each day and in what quantity.
Still, this is the method necessarily made use of in the present
experiment, the writer having prescribed the character and amount of
each meal throughout the entire six months’ period, with due regard, of
course, to the expressed likes and dislikes of the men.

One feature in the diet compelled by the circumstances of the case
also needs to be referred to, namely, the necessity of keeping the men
thoroughly satisfied, so that there should be no feeling of hunger,
no craving for food. With a person interested in the experiment and
desirous of ascertaining the effect of a low nitrogen intake, there
would naturally be a willingness to endure, if necessary, for a time
some personal discomfort; but with this detail of the United States Army
it could not be expected that the men would remain satisfied if they
were compelled to undergo the pangs of hunger even for a day or two.
Consequently, it was necessary in prescribing the daily diet to see that
the quantity of the food was such as to completely satisfy the appetite.
This necessitated the use of considerable bulky food of low fuel, and low
nitrogen, value. In this way only was it feasible to reduce the nitrogen
intake, as well as the fuel value of the food, to the desired level.
Practically during the entire six months’ period, with the possible
exception of a few days, the men were given sufficient food to completely
satisfy their appetites. Throughout the entire period of the experiment,
the men all manifested a keen appetite and utilized their food to good
advantage, with establishment of the nitrogen metabolism indicated by the
foregoing results.

Still confining our attention to the average results regarding nitrogen
excretion, we may ask the question, what was the excretion of metabolized
nitrogen per kilo of body-weight in the different individuals? This is
easily calculated and the data are shown in the following table, in which
the figures standing for body-weight are either the data for the month of
April, 1904, or else the average between the October and April weights,
as in those cases where the body-weight fell off during the experiment.

                           Average daily      Metabolized Nitrogen
           Body-weight.  Output of Nitrogen.        per kilo
                           November-April.        Body-weight.

              kilos            grams                gram

  Fritz        74.0            7.84                 0.106
  Oakman       64.0            7.42                 0.116
  Bates        68.0            8.08                 0.118
  Morris       59.0            7.03                 0.119
  Broyles      60.0            7.26                 0.120
  Henderson    71.0            8.91                 0.125
  Loewenthal   59.0            7.38                 0.125
  Cohn         63.5            8.05                 0.126
  Steltz       53.0            7.13                 0.134
  Sliney       60.0            8.39                 0.138
  Coffman      58.0            8.17                 0.140
  Davis        58.0            8.61                 0.148
  Zooman       55.0            8.25                 0.150

Scrutiny of these results shows that the daily excretion of metabolized
nitrogen ranged in this period of five months from 0.106 gram per kilo
of body-weight up to 0.150 gram per kilo of body-weight. Since these
men were on essentially the same diet, it is obvious that there were
some peculiarities, or personal idiosyncrasies, that tended to modify
the exact extent of proteid metabolism, and in some cases at least
constituted a more potent factor than body-weight in determining the
rate of metabolism. This fact is clearly emphasized in the case of
Morris, who, with a body-weight of 59 kilos, showed a proteid metabolism
equivalent to only 7.03 grams of nitrogen per day, and Coffman, who, with
a body-weight of 58 kilos, showed under the same conditions an average
excretion of 8.17 grams of nitrogen per day.

What was the effect of this lowered proteid metabolism upon the bodily
condition, especially body-weight? To answer this question the weights
of the men are given in the following table, the one column of figures
showing the body-weight at the commencement of the experiment, the other
column showing the weight at the close of the experiment.


TABLE OF BODY-WEIGHTS.

          October, 1903.   April, 1904.
              kilos            kilos
  Steltz       52.3             53.0
  Zooman       54.0             55.0
  Coffman      59.1             58.0
  Morris       59.2             59.0
  Broyles      59.4             61.0
  Loewenthal   60.1             59.0
  Sliney       61.3             60.6
  Cohn         65.0             62.6
  Oakman       66.7             62.1
  Henderson    71.3             71.0
  Fritz        76.0             72.6
  Bates        72.7             64.3 February
  Davis        59.3             57.2 January

Comparison of these figures shows that six of the men were practically of
the same body-weight at the close of the experiment as at the beginning.
Of the others, Oakman, Fritz, Cohn, and Bates lost somewhat. Bates,
however, was quite stout, and the work in the gymnasium as well as the
change of diet tended to reduce his weight. In fact, with the possible
exception of Oakman, the slight loss of weight these latter men underwent
was a distinct gain to their bodily condition. The most significant
feature, however, is to be found on scrutiny of the tables of results for
each man, where is seen the body-weight for each day of the six months.
Here it will be noticed that, as the experiment progressed, there was, as
a rule, a tendency for the body-weight to increase; this was followed by
a decline, after which the weight remained practically stationary. This
is well illustrated in Oakman’s case. Starting with a body-weight of 66.7
kilos on October 4, he reached 67.6 kilos on November 29, then declining
in weight to 62.3 on January 18, after which he remained practically
stationary, or varied only within narrow limits.

Finally, it should be said that the low proteid metabolism on which these
men were apparently maintaining body-weight was not associated with any
increase of non-nitrogenous food. At no time did the fuel value of the
daily food reach 3000 calories; in fact, about January 12 the average
fuel value of the food was only a little over 2000 calories per day.


FIRST NITROGEN BALANCE.

Early in January, the body-weight of the men having become practically
stationary and the proteid metabolism, as measured by the output of
metabolized nitrogen, having been reduced to a low level, an attempt
was made to see if the men were truly in a condition of nitrogenous
equilibrium. A six-day period was used, during which all the food for
each meal was carefully analyzed, the nitrogen in every sample of food
being determined in duplicate by the Kjeldahl-Gunning process. The fæces
of the period were separated by lampblack, given at appropriate times in
gelatin capsules, and all necessary precautions observed to insure an
accurate nitrogen balance. The accompanying tables of results give all
the necessary data.

The average nitrogen intake per day was 8.23 grams, and the average fuel
value of the food per day was 2078 calories. These are the figures for
Oakman. With some of the other men there were slight variations from
these figures, as shown in the tables—owing to slight variations in
diet. Without exception, all the men showed a minus balance, indicating
that on this diet the body was losing nitrogen. In other words, the diet
as a whole was insufficient for the needs of the body in every case.
Whether this was due to lack of sufficient proteid or to an insufficient
amount of fat and carbohydrate, _i. e._, a too low fuel value, cannot be
said definitely, but there is every reason to believe that the amount
of non-nitrogenous food was insufficient to furnish the requisite fuel
value, and consequently body proteid was drawn upon to supply the
deficiency. The loss of nitrogen to the body per day varied as a rule
from 0.5 to 2.0 grams. In one case only, viz., Broyles, was there a close
approach to a balance. In his case there was a minus balance of only 0.12
gram of nitrogen per day.

The average daily output of nitrogen through the urine for this six-days
period (Oakman’s case) was 7.52 grams.

[Illustration: FRITZ

_Photograph taken at the close of the experiment._]


OAKMAN.


_Tuesday, January 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, one cup coffee
350 grams, bread 50 grams, butter 15 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 250 grams, stewed tomato 250 grams, bread 75
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 25 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
75 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried Indian-meal            100     ×     0.38     =    0.380 gram.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.051    =    0.025
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Butter                        15     ×     0.10     =    0.015
  Macaroni                     250     ×     0.53     =    1.325
  Stewed tomato                250     ×     0.15     =    0.375
  Bread         50 + 75 + 75 = 200     ×     1.48     =    2.960
  Potato chips                 100     ×     1.09     =    1.090
  Bacon                         25     ×     3.13     =    0.780
  Jam                           75     ×     0.039    =    0.029
  Tea                          350     ×     0.067    =    0.234
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.091    =    0.318
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.793 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.000

  Fuel value of the food      2404 calories.


_Wednesday, January 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, butter
10 grams, bread 30 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with plenty of bread, fat, and onions chopped
together 150 grams, boiled potato 200 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, bread
75 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, one cup tea 350 grams,
bread 50 grams, butter 15 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled rice                  150     ×     0.36     =    0.540 grams.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.55     =    0.687
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter (breakfast)            10     ×     0.10     =    0.010
  Bread (breakfast)             30     ×     1.66     =    0.498
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Hamburg steak, etc.          150     ×     2.80     =    4.200
  Potato                       200     ×     0.29     =    0.580
  Apple sauce                  200     ×     0.067    =    0.134
  Bread (dinner)                75     ×     1.66     =    1.245
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.076    =    0.266
  Fried rice                   100     ×     0.50     =    0.500
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.051    =    0.025
  Tea                          350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Bread (supper)                50     ×     1.66     =    0.830
  Butter                        15     ×     0.10     =    0.015
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.992 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.330

  Fuel value of the food      2133 calories.


_Thursday, January 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 30 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Split pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, mashed potato
100 grams, pickles 30 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, pie 120 grams.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, crackers 25 grams,
one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled hominy                150     ×     0.21     =    0.315 gram.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.52     =    0.650
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter                        10     ×     0.10     =    0.010
  Bread (breakfast)             30     ×     1.59     =    0.477
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.096    =    0.336
  Split pea soup               200     ×     0.69     =    1.380
  Bread (dinner)                75     ×     1.59     =    1.192
  Mashed potato                100     ×     0.31     =    0.310
  Pickles                       30     ×     0.054    =    0.016
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Pie                          120     ×     0.50     =    0.600
  Suet pudding                 150     ×     0.78     =    1.170
  Apple sauce                  125     ×     0.058    =    0.072
  Crackers                      25     ×     1.61     =    0.402
  Tea                          350     ×     0.063    =    0.220
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.412 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.290

  Fuel value of the food      2000 calories.


_Friday, January 15, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, one cup coffee
350 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (4 parts potato, 1 part fish, fried in pork fat)
150 grams, stewed tomato 200 grams, bread 75 grams, one cup coffee 350
grams, apple pie 95 grams.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Wheat griddle cakes          200     ×     0.78     =    1.560 grams.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.051    =    0.025
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Codfish-balls, etc.          150     ×     1.77     =    2.655
  Stewed tomato                200     ×     0.14     =    0.280
  Bread (dinner)                75     ×     1.59     =    1.192
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Apple pie                     95     ×     0.40     =    0.380
  Apple fritters               200     ×     0.40     =    0.800
  Stewed prunes                125     ×     0.15     =    0.187
  Bread (supper)                50     ×     1.59     =    0.795
  Butter                        15     ×     0.10     =    0.015
  Tea                          350     ×     0.042    =    0.147
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.560 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.140

  Fuel value of the food      2030 calories.


_Saturday, January 16, 1904._

Breakfast.—Soft oatmeal 150 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 30 grams, bread
30 grams, butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with a little cheese 200 grams, stewed tomato 200
grams, bread 50 grams, tapioca-peach pudding 150 grams, one cup coffee
350 grams.

Supper.—French fried potato 100 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread 75
grams, jam 75 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Soft oatmeal                 150     ×     0.27     =    0.405 grams.
  Milk                         100     ×     0.44     =    0.440
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread (breakfast)             30     ×     1.61     =    0.483
  Butter                        10     ×     0.10     =    0.010
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Baked macaroni, etc.         200     ×     0.72     =    1.440
  Stewed tomatoes              200     ×     0.15     =    0.300
  Bread (dinner)                50     ×     1.61     =    0.805
  Tapioca-peach pudding        150     ×     0.087    =    0.130
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.093    =    0.325
  French fried potato          100     ×     0.47     =    0.470
  Fried bacon                   20     ×     3.15     =    0.630
  Bread (supper)                75     ×     1.61     =    1.207
  Jam                           75     ×     0.039    =    0.029
  Tea                          350     ×     0.099    =    0.346
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.282 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.230

  Fuel value of the food      1824 calories.


_Sunday, January 17, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 125 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 30 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, mashed potato 100
grams, pickles 25 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, custard pie 105 grams.

Supper.—Crackers 50 grams, butter 15 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams,
sponge cake 100 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled Indian-meal           125     ×     0.24     =    0.300 grams.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.50     =    0.625
  Sugar                         30     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter (breakfast)            10     ×     0.10     =    0.010
  Bread (breakfast)             30     ×     1.61     =    0.483
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.087    =    0.304
  Bean soup                    200     ×     0.86     =    1.720
  Bread (dinner)                75     ×     1.61     =    1.207
  Mashed potato                100     ×     0.28     =    0.280
  Pickles                       25     ×     0.054    =    0.013
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.081    =    0.283
  Custard pie                  105     ×     0.88     =    0.924
  Crackers                      50     ×     1.61     =    0.805
  Butter (supper)               15     ×     0.10     =    0.015
  Stewed prunes                125     ×     0.17     =    0.212
  Sponge cake                  100     ×     1.00     =    1.000
  Tea                          350     ×     0.048    =    0.168
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.349 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.140

  Fuel value of the food      2081 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Oakman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    6.00 grams.
       13     9.992           7.33
       14     7.412           8.29            5.0 grams.
       15     8.560           7.14           76.0
       16     7.282           8.23           13.5
       17     8.349           8.14            9.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            104.0   grams contain 7.39% N.
             49.388          45.13      +     7.685 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.388 grams nitrogen.   52.815 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -3.427 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.571 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2078.
  Nitrogen per day      8.23 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Loewenthal._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    7.33 grams.
       13     9.992           7.64           21 grams.
       14     7.388           6.21           26
       15     8.560           8.18           52
       16     7.282           7.92           37
       17     8.349           7.26           11
             ------          ------         ------
                                            147     grams contain 6.97% N.
             49.364          44.54      +    10.24  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.364 grams nitrogen.   54.78 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -5.416 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.902 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that a smaller amount of coffee was
taken at breakfast on the 14th. Nitrogen correction made accordingly.

[Illustration: COFFMAN

STELTZ

_Photographs taken at the close of the experiment._]


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Steltz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    4.61 grams.    15.0 grams.
       13     9.463           7.90           34.0
       14     7.412           4.99           21.0
       15     8.560           9.05           31.5
       16     7.282           7.56           33.0
       17     8.349           8.55           18.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            152.5   grams contain 6.52% N.
             48.859          42.66      +     9.94  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             48.859 grams nitrogen.   52.60 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -3.741 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.623 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except on January 13, when 8 grams of boiled
rice were uneaten at breakfast and 100 grams of fried rice at supper.
Correction in nitrogen-content made accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Bates._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.706 grams.    7.46 grams.
       13     9.916           7.03
       14     7.375           7.13           36 grams.
       15     8.439           8.04           30
       16     7.226           7.66           34
       17     8.349           7.38           34
             ------          ------         ------
                                            134     grams contain 7.17% N.
             49.011          44.70      +     9.61  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.011 grams nitrogen.   54.31 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -5.299 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.883 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, with the following exceptions:

  Jan. 12  Supper:      8 grams Potato chips, uneaten.
       13  Dinner:    113   ”     Apple sauce,   ”
       14     ”        50   ”     Coffee,        ”
       15  Supper:     81   ”     Prunes,        ”
       16  Breakfast:  75   ”     Coffee,        ”


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Coffman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    8.82 grams.
       13     9.992           8.28
       14     7.412           8.30           57.00 grams.
       15     8.560           7.91           41.25
       16     7.282           7.32           47.00
       17     8.349           7.44           21.50
             ------          ------         ------
                                            166.75  grams contain 6.66% N
              49.388         48.07      +    11.10  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
              49.388 grams nitrogen.   59.17 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -9.782 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.630 grams.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Fritz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    8.99 grams.
       13     9.992           6.49
       14     7.412          10.26           64.0 grams.
       15     8.560           7.97           29.5
       16     7.282           5.20           62.0
       17     8.186           9.40           31.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            186.5   grams contain 6.49% N.
             49.225          48.31      +    12.10  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.225 grams nitrogen.   60.41 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -11.185 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.864 grams.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that on the 17th inst. a portion of
the prunes was uneaten. Correction made accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Henderson._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.639 grams.    7.68 grams.
       13     9.794           8.22
       14     7.487           8.24
       15     8.560           7.76           45 grams.
       16     7.068           7.56           26
       17     8.045           7.87           22
             ------          ------         ------
                                             93     grams contain 6.45% N.
             48.593          47.33      +     6.00  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             48.593 grams nitrogen.   53.33 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -4.737 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.789 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that on several days smaller amounts
of coffee and tea were taken. Corrections made accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Morris._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.255 grams.    4.19 grams.
       13     9.573           7.92
       14     7.325           7.91            4.75 grams.
       15     8.638           7.44           38.00
       16     7.282           7.38           71.00
       17     8.349           5.28           53.00
             ------          ------         ------
                                            166.75  grams contain 6.45% N.
             48.322          40.12      +    10.75  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             48.322 grams nitrogen.   50.87 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -2.548 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.424 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s except that on the first three days smaller
amounts of tea and coffee were taken. Corrections made accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Zooman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.466 grams.   11.31 grams.
       13     9.992          11.63
       14     7.412           9.38
       15     8.560           8.44           27.5 grams.
       16     7.282           8.89           28.5
       17     8.349           8.99           13.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                             69.0   grams contain 6.46% N.
             49.061          58.64      +     4.45  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.061 grams nitrogen.   63.09 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -14.029 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -2.338 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that on January 12th 30 grams potato
chips were not eaten. Nitrogen intake corrected accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Sliney._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     6.501 grams.    5.94 grams.    22.5 grams.
       13     9.975           8.44           26.0
       14     7.388           7.42           22.5
       15     8.560           7.89           24.0
       16     7.282           7.23           13.0
       17     8.349           8.15           15.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            123.0   grams contain 6.72% N.
             48.055          45.07      +     8.26  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             48.055 grams nitrogen.   53.33 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -5.275 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.879 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that on the 12th 190 grams stewed
tomatoes and 190 grams macaroni were uneaten; on the 13th at breakfast 25
grams of coffee were left, and on the 14th at breakfast 25 grams coffee
were not taken. Corrections in intake of nitrogen made accordingly.

[Illustration: COFFMAN

STELTZ

_Photographs taken at the close of the experiment._]


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Cohn._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.793 grams.    6.49 grams.
       13     9.957           9.10           29.0 grams.
       14     7.412           7.33            8.5
       15     8.320           8.04           44.0
       16     7.282           8.58           19.0
       17     8.349           7.44            5.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            106.0   grams contain 6.48% N.
             49.113          46.98      +     6.87  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             49.113 grams nitrogen.   53.85 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -4.737 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.789 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that on the 15th inst. at supper
60 grams fritters were uneaten, and on the 13th at breakfast 30 grams
coffee, and at dinner 22 grams apple sauce were uneaten. Corrections made
accordingly.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Broyles._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Jan. 12     7.475 grams.    5.38 grams.
       13     9.495           6.99
       14     6.814           7.47
       15     8.036           9.67           35 grams.
       16     6.695           7.65           14
       17     7.762           5.28           20
             ------          ------         ------
                                             69     grams contain 6.61% N.
             46.277          42.44      +     4.56  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             46.277 grams nitrogen.   47.00 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  -0.723 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.120 gram.

Daily diet same as Oakman’s, except that each day coffee was omitted from
breakfast and dinner. Corrections made accordingly.


SECOND NITROGEN BALANCE.

Commencing February 29, a second nitrogen balance was attempted with very
different results. This balance period extended through seven days and
was characterized by an average daily intake of 9.50 grams of nitrogen,
an increase of 1.3 grams of nitrogen per day over the preceding period,
together with an average fuel value of the food equal to 2500 calories
per day.

The daily diet with its content of nitrogen, etc., is detailed under
Oakman. Any variations (only slight ones) from this diet are indicated
on the individual balance-sheets, corrections being made in the nitrogen
intake.

In all of the men, with one exception, a distinct plus balance is seen,
showing that under the conditions of this experiment the men were all
storing up nitrogen. The plus balance per day varied from 0.132 gram to
1.231 grams of nitrogen.

The average daily output of nitrogen through the urine for this seven
days’ period (Oakman’s case) was 7.24 grams, being 0.28 gram less per day
than in the preceding period. Sliney, the one man who failed to show a
positive balance, was apparently losing nitrogen at the rate of 0.48 gram
per day during this period.

All of the individual data are shown in the accompanying tables of
results:


OAKMAN.


_Monday February 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 250 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 75
grams, boiled tomato 150 grams, apple pie 112 grams, one cup coffee 350
grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, fried sweet potato 150
grams, butter 20 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled rice                  175     ×     0.34     =    0.595 grams.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.55     =    0.687
  Sugar                         25     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                 150     ×     0.34     =    0.510
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.082    =    0.287
  Butter             10 + 20 =  30     ×     0.16     =    0.480
  Spaghetti                    250     ×     0.73     =    1.825
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.30     =    0.750
  Bread                         75     ×     1.61     =    1.207
  Tomato                       150     ×     0.16     =    0.240
  Apple pie                    112     ×     0.46     =    0.515
  Biscuit                      175     ×     1.21     =    2.117
  Fried bacon                   20     ×     3.80     =    0.760
  Fried sweet potato           150     ×     0.22     =    0.330
  Tea                          350     ×     0.06     =    0.210
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.11     =    0.385
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.466 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.880

  Fuel value of the food      2670 calories.


_Tuesday, March 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150 grams,
butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Thick pea soup 250 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, boiled sweet
potato 150 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, one cup coffee 350
grams.

Supper.—Celery-lettuce-apple salad 120 grams, crackers 32 grams, American
cheese 20 grams, Saratoga chips 79 grams, one cup tea 350 grams, rice
custard 100 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried rice                   150     ×     0.34     =    0.510 grams.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                 150     ×     0.33     =    0.495
  Butter             10 + 20 =  30     ×     0.16     =    0.048
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.042    =    0.147
  Pea soup                     250     ×     0.54     =    1.350
  Boiled onions                150     ×     0.27     =    0.405
  Boiled sweet potato          150     ×     0.13     =    0.195
  Bread                         75     ×     1.65     =    1.237
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.084    =    0.294
  Salad                        120     ×     0.14     =    0.168
  Crackers                      32     ×     1.50     =    0.480
  Cheese                        20     ×     3.92     =    0.784
  Saratoga chips                79     ×     1.22     =    0.963
  Tea                          350     ×     0.054    =    0.189
  Rice custard                 100     ×     0.56     =    0.560
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.825 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.420

  Fuel value of the food      2279 calories.


_Wednesday, March 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, banana 75 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potato 250 grams, boiled
turnip 150 grams, bread 75 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, apple sauce
150 grams.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 100 grams,
bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, chocolate cake 150 grams, cranberry
sauce 100 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Griddle cakes                200     ×     0.80     =    1.600 grams.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter             10 + 20 =  30     ×     0.16     =    0.048
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Banana                        75     ×     0.20     =    0.150
  Mackerel                      25     ×     3.92     =    0.980
  Boiled potato                250     ×     0.27     =    0.675
  Boiled turnip                150     ×     0.071    =    0.106
  Bread              75 + 75 = 150     ×     1.63     =    2.445
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Apple sauce                  150     ×     0.048    =    0.072
  Cabbage                      100     ×     0.28     =    0.280
  Chocolate cake               150     ×     0.95     =    1.425
  Cranberry sauce              100     ×     0.045    =    0.045
  Tea                          350     ×     0.057    =    0.199
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.487 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.580

  Fuel value of the food      2391 calories.


_Thursday, March 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potato 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350
grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, jam 75 grams,
butter 20 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled hominy                175     ×     0.19     =    0.330 grams.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.40     =    0.500
  Sugar                         25     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                 150     ×     0.28     =    0.420
  Butter        10 + 10 + 20 =  40     ×     0.16     =    0.064
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Hamburg steak                150     ×     2.12     =    3.180
  Boiled potato                250     ×     0.27     =    0.675
  Bread              75 + 75 = 150     ×     1.48     =    2.220
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.093    =    0.325
  Tapioca-peach pudding        250     ×     0.22     =    0.550
  Jam                           75     ×     0.034    =    0.025
  Tea                          350     ×     0.057    =    0.199
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.750 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.850

  Fuel value of the food      2375 calories.


_Friday, March 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 4 parts potatoes, fried in pork fat)
150 grams, stewed tomato 200 grams, stewed potato 150 grams, bread 75
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, apple pie 130 grams.

Supper.—French fried potato 200 grams, fried sausage 50 grams, butter 10
grams, bread 50 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, sponge cake 35 grams, one
cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried hominy                 150     ×     0.32     =    0.480 grams.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                 150     ×     0.37     =    0.555
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.099    =    0.346
  Butter             10 + 10 =  20     ×     0.16     =    0.032
  Fish-balls                   150     ×     1.73     =    2.595
  Stewed tomato                200     ×     0.19     =    0.380
  Bread              75 + 50 = 125     ×     1.54     =    1.925
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.069    =    0.241
  Apple pie                    130     ×     0.38     =    0.494
  French fried potato          200     ×     0.49     =    0.980
  Sausage                       50     ×     2.75     =    1.375
  Prunes                       125     ×     0.17     =    0.212
  Sponge cake                   35     ×     0.83     =    0.290
  Tea                          350     ×     0.072    =    0.252
  Stewed potato                150     ×     0.18     =    0.270
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.427 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.950

  Fuel value of the food      2374 calories.


_Saturday, March 5, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
one cup coffee 350 grams, fried sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup, thick with potatoes and onions boiled together 325
grams, bread 100 grams, scrambled eggs 50 grams, mashed potato 150 grams,
one cup coffee 350.

Supper.—Bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams,
bacon 20 grams, French fried potato 150 grams, bread 50 grams, butter 10
grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled Indian-meal           200     ×     0.20     =    0.400 gram.
  Milk                         125     ×     0.52     =    0.650
  Sugar                         25     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.10     =    0.350
  Fried sweet potato           150     ×     0.22     =    0.330
  Butter             10 + 10 =  20     ×     0.16     =    0.032
  Tomato soup                  325     ×     0.10     =    0.325
  Bread             100 + 50 = 150     ×     1.57     =    2.355
  Scrambled eggs                50     ×     2.22     =    1.110
  Mashed potato                150     ×     0.25     =    0.375
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Bread pudding                250     ×     0.80     =    2.000
  Stewed peaches               150     ×     0.24     =    0.360
  Bacon                         20     ×     4.00     =    0.800
  French fried potato          150     ×     0.56     =    0.840
  Tea                          350     ×     0.084    =    0.294
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.483 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.100

  Fuel value of the food      2302 calories.


_Sunday, March 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, sliced banana 100
grams, baked potato 150 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Corned beef 50 grams, boiled cabbage 200 grams, mashed potato 250
grams, bread 75 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, fried rice 100 grams,
jam 75 grams.

Supper.—Sponge cake 150 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, crackers 32 grams,
butter 10 grams, one cup tea 350 grams, sardine 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried Indian-meal            150     ×     0.38     =    0.570 gram.
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Banana                       100     ×     0.19     =    0.190
  Baked potato                 150     ×     0.37     =    0.555
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.072    =    0.252
  Butter             10 + 10 =  20     ×     0.16     =    0.032
  Corned beef                   50     ×     5.24     =    2.620
  Cabbage                      200     ×     0.34     =    0.680
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.32     =    0.800
  Bread                         75     ×     1.67     =    1.252
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.093    =    0.325
  Fried rice                   100     ×     0.23     =    0.230
  Jam                           75     ×     0.034    =    0.025
  Sponge cake                  150     ×     1.02     =    1.530
  Apple sauce                  150     ×     0.044    =    0.066
  Crackers                      32     ×     1.50     =    0.480
  Tea                          350     ×     0.054    =    0.189
  Sardine                       14     ×     3.35     =    0.469
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.265 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.960

  Fuel value of the food      3173 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Oakman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces[34] (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    6.88 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           7.42
        2     8.487           7.58           17 grams.
        3     8.750           6.85           72
        4    10.427           7.95           39
        5    10.483           6.10           19
        6    10.265           7.96           35
             ------          ------         ------
                                            182     grams contain 6.81% N.
             66.703          50.74      +    12.394 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             66.703 grams nitrogen.   63.134 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +3.569 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.509 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2509.
  Nitrogen per day      9.50 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Henderson._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.261 grams.    8.36 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.384           6.80
        2     8.487           8.28           85 grams.
        3     8.555           7.37
        4    10.427           8.22
        5    10.483           8.09
        6    10.265           8.20           28
             ------          ------         ------
                                            113     grams contain 6.21% N.
             65.862          55.32      +     7.017 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             65.862 grams nitrogen.   62.337 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +3.525 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.503 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Morris._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    6.40 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.720           6.64           45 grams.
        2     8.319           5.40           43
        3     8.750           6.55           41
        4    10.427           4.99           45
        5    10.483           5.38           38
        6    10.265           7.01           13
             ------          ------         ------
                                            225     grams contain 7.18% N.
             66.430          42.37      +    16.155 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             66.430 grams nitrogen.   58.525 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +7.905 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +1.129 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Coffman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    8.63 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           7.48
        2     8.487           8.62
        3     8.750           7.18
        4    10.427           7.93           65 grams.
        5    10.483           7.67           83
        6    10.265           7.95           20
             ------          ------         ------
                                            168     grams contain 6.14% N.
              66.703         55.46      +    10.315 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
              66.703 grams nitrogen.   65.775 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +0.928 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.132 gram.

[Illustration: ZOOMAN

COHN

_Photographs taken at the close of the experiment._]


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Steltz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29     9.989 grams.    7.90 grams.    23 grams.
  Mar.  1     8.090           5.98           22
        2     8.487           6.58           21
        3     9.300           8.10           45
        4    11.107           4.66           18
        5    10.024           8.69           36
        6    10.392           8.20           31
                                             10
             ------          ------         ------
                                            206     grams contain 6.66% N.
             67.389          50.11      +    13.719 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             67.389 grams nitrogen.   63.829 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +3.560 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.508 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Loewenthal._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    7.38 grams.    16.5 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           7.05           38.0
        2     8.487           7.07           21.0
        3     8.750           7.83
        4    10.427           7.35           15.0
        5    10.654           4.29           22.0
        6    10.886           8.07           56.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            168.5   grams contain 7.11% N.
             67.495          49.04      +    11.980 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             67.495 grams nitrogen.   61.020 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +6.475 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.925 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Cohn._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.442 grams.    9.74 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           6.86
        2     8.487           7.29           43 grams.
        4    10.215           5.59           24
        5    10.483           9.55           57
        6     8.164           6.77           25
             ------          ------         ------
                                            149     grams contain 6.63% N.
                                            = 9.878 gr.
                                             -1.401[35]
             55.616          45.80      +   = 8.477 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             55.616 grams nitrogen.   54.277 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  +1.339 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.223 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Zooman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    7.02 grams.    18 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.604           6.66           25
        2     8.487           7.26           52
        3     8.750           7.56           40
        4    10.427           7.51           14
        5    10.483           7.08           30
        6    10.265           6.81           10
             ------          ------         ------
                                            189     grams contain 6.54% N.
             66.482          49.90      +    12.36  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             66.482 grams nitrogen.   62.26 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +4.222 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.603 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Sliney._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    9.50 grams.    15 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           8.09           35
        2     8.487           7.97           25
        3     8.734           7.78           45
        4    10.427           7.49           28
        5    10.475           7.54           21
        6    10.265           8.23           32
             ------          ------         ------
                                            201     grams contain 6.70% N.
             66.679          56.60      +    13.467 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             66.679 grams nitrogen.   70.067 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  -3.388 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.484 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Broyles._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.179 grams.    5.74 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.468           9.26
        2     8.487           6.97           13 grams.
        3     8.750           6.18            4
        4    10.427           7.68           46
        5    10.483           5.56           29
        6    10.265           7.69           42
             ------          ------         ------
                                            134     grams contain 6.24% N.
              66.059         49.08      +     8.361 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
              66.059 grams nitrogen.   57.441 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +8.618 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +1.231 grams.

[Illustration: ZOOMAN

COHN

_Photographs taken at the close of the experiment._]


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Fritz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Feb. 29    10.466 grams.    6.22 grams.
  Mar.  1     7.825           7.44
        2     8.487           4.00           71
        3     8.750           7.05           28
        5    10.483           8.71           49
        6    10.265           4.78           44
             ------          ------         ------
                                            192     grams contain 6.61% N.
                                           = 12.691 gr.
                                             -1.813[36]
             56.276          38.20      +  = 10.878 grm. N.
             ------          ----------------------
             56.276 grams nitrogen.   49.078 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for six days    =  +7.198 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +1.199 grams.


THIRD NITROGEN BALANCE.

The last of March, a third nitrogen balance was tried on a slightly
lowered nitrogen intake and with a slight increase in the fuel value of
the daily food. In this period of five days, March 28 to April 1, the
nitrogen taken in per day averaged 8.62 grams, or nearly one gram per day
less than in the preceding period. The fuel value of the food averaged
2840 calories per day, or about 300 calories more than in the preceding
period.

The daily diet, with its content of nitrogen, etc., is detailed for each
day under Oakman. Any deviation from this diet in the cases of the other
men is indicated on the accompanying balance-sheets.

The results obtained in this balance period indicate that the lowest
level had been practically reached, at least under the conditions of
body-weight, food, and work prevailing. Cohn, Fritz, and Broyles showed
a distinct positive balance. Steltz and Loewenthal were practically
in equilibrium, the deviation being within the limits of error. The
remaining six men showed a minus balance, although in no case was it very
marked.

It is interesting to note in this connection that the average daily
output of nitrogen through the urine for this five days’ period (Oakman’s
case) amounted to 7.04 grams, being 0.2 gram less per day than in the
preceding period. This figure for nitrogen in the urine means the
metabolism daily of 44 grams of proteid.

Undoubtedly, the rate of proteid metabolism for these men could have been
lowered considerably beyond the present level by increasing largely the
intake of carbohydrates and fats, but it has been the intent throughout
all of these experiments to learn the minimal proteid requirement
under conditions precluding the use of any excess of non-nitrogenous
foods; also, to study the effect of a general physiological economy
in nutrition, with a view to ascertaining the real necessities of the
body for both proteid and non-proteid foods with maintenance of bodily
strength and vigor. Hence, we may again emphasize the fact that the low
proteid metabolism maintained by all these men throughout the period
of the experiment, with establishment of nitrogenous equilibrium on a
consumption of proteid or albuminous food averaging one-half the amount
ordinarily specified as the daily requirement of the healthy man, has
been accomplished with even less total food—fats and carbohydrates—than
the ordinary standards call for, _i. e._, considerably less than 3000
calories per day in fuel value.


OAKMAN.


_Monday, March 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 250 grams,
butter 20 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Thick pea soup 200 grams, boiled onions 100 grams, boiled sweet
potato 250 grams, bread 50 grams, mashed potato 200 grams, butter 20
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Sliced banana 150 grams, biscuit 125 grams, fried bacon 20 grams,
French fried potato 200 grams, butter 25 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried rice                   150     ×     0.40     =    0.600 grams.
  Syrup                         75     ×     0.051    =    0.038
  Baked potato                 250     ×     0.33     =    0.825
  Butter        25 + 20 + 20 =  65     ×     0.15     =    0.097
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.10     =    0.350
  Pea soup                     200     ×     0.50     =    1.000
  Boiled onion                 100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Sweet potato                 250     ×     0.12     =    0.300
  Bread                         50     ×     1.57     =    0.785
  Mashed potato                200     ×     0.30     =    0.600
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
  Banana                       150     ×     0.27     =    0.405
  Biscuit                      125     ×     1.21     =    1.513
  Bacon                         20     ×     3.85     =    0.770
  Fried potato                 200     ×     0.46     =    0.920
  Tea                          350     ×     0.075    =    0.262
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.027 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.640

  Fuel value of the food      2935 calories.


_Tuesday, March 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 75 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 250 grams, butter 20 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 125 grams, boiled
potato 300 grams, butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, bread 35
grams, boiled carrots 125 grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 300 grams, bread 35 grams, Saratoga chips
75 grams, butter 20 grams, jam 75 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled hominy                175     ×     0.23     =    0.403 grams.
  Milk                          75     ×     0.55     =    0.413
  Sugar                         25     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                 250     ×     0.36     =    0.900
  Butter        20 + 10 + 20 =  50     ×     0.15     =    0.075
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.057    =    0.200
  Hamburg steak, etc.          125     ×     2.50     =    3.130
  Boiled potato                300     ×     0.26     =    0.780
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.051    =    0.179
  Carrots                      125     ×     0.13     =    0.163
  Tapioca-peach pudding        300     ×     0.28     =    0.840
  Bread              35 + 35 =  70     ×     1.51     =    1.057
  Saratoga chips                75     ×     0.79     =    0.593
  Jam                           75     ×     0.039    =    0.029
  Tea                          350     ×     0.06     =    0.210
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.972 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.340

  Fuel value of the food      2840 calories.


_Wednesday, March 30, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, butter 10 grams,
sliced banana 250 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 5 parts potatoes, fried in pork fat)
125 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, stewed tomato 200 grams, bread 35
grams, apple sauce 200 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 75 grams,
bread 50 grams, butter 20 grams, fried sweet potato 250 grams, cranberry
sauce 200 grams, sponge cake 50 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried hominy                 150     ×     0.35     =    0.525 grams.
  Syrup                         75     ×     0.051    =    0.038
  Butter             10 + 20 =  30     ×     0.15     =    0.045
  Banana                       250     ×     0.25     =    0.625
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Codfish-balls, etc.          125     ×     3.25     =    4.063
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.26     =    0.650
  Tomato                       200     ×     0.18     =    0.360
  Bread              35 + 50 =  85     ×     1.50     =    1.280
  Apple sauce                  200     ×     0.053    =    0.106
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.051    =    0.179
  Cabbage                       75     ×     0.22     =    0.165
  Fried sweet potato           250     ×     0.15     =    0.375
  Cranberry sauce              200     ×     0.066    =    0.132
  Sponge cake                   50     ×     0.87     =    0.435
  Tea                          350     ×     0.042    =    0.147
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.356 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.300

  Fuel value of the food      2657 calories.


_Thursday, March 31, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian meal 100 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 250
grams, one cup coffee 350 grams, butter 20 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup, thick, with potatoes and onions boiled together 300
grams, mashed potato 200 grams, scrambled egg 50 grams, bread 50 grams,
butter 10 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Bread pudding 150 grams, sliced banana 200 grams, fried bacon 20
grams, boiled potato 200 grams, butter 10 grams, one cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried Indian meal            100     ×     0.44     =    0.440 grams.
  Syrup                         75     ×     0.051    =    0.038
  Baked potato                 250     ×     0.32     =    0.800
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.066    =    0.231
  Butter        10 + 20 + 10 =  40     ×     0.15     =    0.060
  Tomato soup                  300     ×     0.48     =    1.440
  Mashed potato                200     ×     0.26     =    0.520
  Scrambled egg                 50     ×     2.15     =    1.075
  Bread                         50     ×     1.48     =    0.740
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.057    =    0.200
  Bread pudding                150     ×     0.92     =    1.380
  Banana                       200     ×     0.24     =    0.480
  Bacon                         20     ×     1.95     =    0.390
  Boiled potato                200     ×     0.25     =    0.500
  Tea                          350     ×     0.036    =    0.126
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.420 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.100

  Fuel value of the food      2466 calories.


_Friday, April 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 200
grams, butter 20 grams, one cup coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 250 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, boiled turnip
150 grams, bread 35 grams, butter 10 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, one
cup coffee 350 grams.

Supper.—Apple-tapioca pudding 300 grams, fried sweet potato 200 grams,
butter 20 grams, jam 100 grams, fried bacon 25 grams, bread 35 grams, one
cup tea 350 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried hominy                 150     ×     0.24     =    0.360 grams.
  Syrup                         75     ×     0.051    =    0.038
  Baked potato                 200     ×     0.33     =    0.660
  Butter        20 + 10 + 20 =  50     ×     0.15     =    0.075
  Coffee (breakfast)           350     ×     0.06     =    0.210
  Spaghetti                    250     ×     0.64     =    1.600
  Mashed potato                250     ×     0.28     =    0.700
  Boiled turnip                150     ×     0.61     =    0.915
  Bread              35 + 35 =  70     ×     1.56     =    1.092
  Apple sauce                  200     ×     0.053    =    0.106
  Coffee (dinner)              350     ×     0.072    =    0.252
  Apple-tapioca pudding        300     ×     0.043    =    0.129
  Fried sweet potato           200     ×     0.15     =    0.300
  Jam                          100     ×     0.039    =    0.039
  Bacon                         25     ×     2.96     =    0.740
  Tea                          350     ×     0.036    =    0.126
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.342 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.830

  Fuel value of the food      3248 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Oakman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    6.64 grams.
       29     8.972           8.34           39 grams.
       30     9.356           6.30           38
       31     8.420           7.10           31
  Apr.  1     7.342           6.83           29
             ------          ------         ------
                                            137     grams contain 6.84% N.
             43.117          35.21      +     9.37  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             43.117 grams nitrogen.   44.580 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -1.463 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.292 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2840.
  Nitrogen per day      8.62 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Broyles._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    6.79 grams.    27.0 grams.
       29     8.972           7.06           45.5
       30     9.356           7.27           41.0
       31     8.640           6.21           25.0
  Apr.  1     7.342           5.86           20.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            158.5   grams contain 5.92% N.
             43.337          33.19      +     9.383 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             43.337 grams nitrogen.   42.573 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  +0.764 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.153 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Fritz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 29     7.229 grams.    5.09 grams.
       30     9.235           7.10           25 grams.
       31     8.640           5.18           43
  Apr.  1     7.439           5.74           34
             ------          ------         ------
                                            102     grams contain 6.42% N.
             32.543          23.11      +     6.548 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             32.543 grams nitrogen.   29.658 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for four days   =  +2.885 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.721 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Loewenthal._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    6.27 grams.    13.5 grams.
       29     8.760           7.54           52.0
       30     9.341           7.07           41.0
       31     8.112           5.24           21.0
  Apr.  1     7.342           6.43           17.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            144.5   grams contain 7.00% N.
             42.582          32.55      +    10.115 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             42.582 grams nitrogen.   42.665 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -0.083 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.016 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Cohn._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     8.825 grams.    6.61 grams.
       29     8.151           6.48           27 grams.
       30     9.211           6.36           25
       31     8.030           7.47           23
  Apr.  1     7.246           4.35           39
             ------          ------         ------
                                            114     grams contain 6.84% N.
             41.463          31.27      +     7.797 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             41.463 grams nitrogen.   39.067 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  +2.396 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.479 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Coffman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    8.38 grams.
       29     8.972           8.06           42 grams.
       30     9.356           6.88           24
       31     8.640           7.78           29
  Apr.  1     7.342           7.22           32
             ------          ------         ------
                                            127     grams contain 6.54% N.
             43.337          38.32      +     8.306 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             43.337 grams nitrogen.   46.626 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -3.289 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.657 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Sliney._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     8.527 grams.    7.09 grams.    28.0 grams.
       29     8.630           7.37           31.5
       30     9.356           8.10           33.0
       31     8.420           7.47           26.0
  Apr.  1     7.342           6.78           50.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            168.5   grams contain 6.42% N.
             42.275          36.81      +    10.82  grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             42.275 grams nitrogen.   47.63 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -5.355 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.071 grams.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Steltz._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     8.026 grams.    3.60 grams.    32.0 grams.
       29     8.252           6.79           29.0
       30     9.255           7.20           44.0
       31     8.720           7.11           22.0
  Apr.  1     7.357           7.82           30.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            157.5   grams contain 5.97% N.
             41.610          32.52      +     9.403 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             41.610 grams nitrogen.   41.923 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -0.313 gram.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.062 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Zooman._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    7.47 grams.    33.0 grams.
       29     8.379           7.80           45.0
       30     9.356           5.40           30.0
       31     8.420           8.04           28.0
  Apr.  1     7.269           8.44           11.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            147.5   grams contain 6.39% N.
             42.451          37.15      +     9.425 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             42.451 grams nitrogen.   46.575 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -4.124 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.824 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Henderson._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     9.027 grams.    8.40 grams.
       29     8.972           9.04
       30     9.356           5.95           83 grams.
       31     8.640           5.42           36
  Apr.  1     7.342           6.60           58
             ------          ------         ------
                                            177     grams contain 6.48% N.
              43.337         35.41      +    11.469 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
              43.337 grams nitrogen.   46.879 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -3.542 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.708 gram.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Morris._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  Mar. 28     8.877 grams.    6.68 grams.    12 grams.
       29     8.774           5.69           48
       30     8.941           6.06           34
       31     8.420           6.96           34
  Apr.  1     7.286           7.10           33
             ------          ------         ------
                                            161     grams contain 7.08% N.
             42.298          32.49      +    11.399 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             42.298 grams nitrogen.   43.889 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for five days   =  -1.591 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.317 gram.


SUMMARY REGARDING NITROGEN REQUIREMENT.

These results obtained with this body of United States soldiers, living
on a prescribed diet and exposed to the stress and strain of military
discipline with its attendant duties, together with the gymnastic work
and training required each day, confirm in every detail the conclusions
arrived at with the preceding group of professional workers. Once
accustomed to a more sparing proteid diet, less rich in nitrogen, each
one of these subjects had no difficulty in maintaining body-weight on the
simpler and lighter food provided. No great difficulty was experienced
in establishing a condition of nitrogenous equilibrium with this lowered
intake of proteid food, neither was it necessary to increase the amounts
of non-nitrogenous foods (fats and carbohydrates) to accomplish this
end. The bodies of these men were quite able to adjust themselves to
a lowered proteid metabolism, and physiologically speaking, one might
well conjecture whether we have not in this condition a nearer approach
to the normal and ideal state of the body than when the latter is
struggling daily with 118 grams of proteid food, reinforced by fats and
carbohydrates correspondingly increased in amount. However this may be,
the members of the soldier detail were able to live for five consecutive
months with a proteid metabolism corresponding to 7 to 8 grams of
nitrogen per day, with maintenance of body-weight and without discomfort
or loss of bodily vigor.

It was easy in most instances to prove the establishment of nitrogen
equilibrium with a daily intake of 8.5 to 9.5 grams of nitrogen, and with
a total fuel value of the daily food equal to 2500 to 2800 calories. In
other words, a metabolism of less than 50 grams of proteid per day was
quite sufficient for the needs of the body, and a fuel value of 2500
to 2600 calories was ample to meet the requirements of the men under
the then existing conditions of bodily and mental activity. Are we not
justified, therefore, in again asking the question, why should we hold
and teach the doctrine that the healthy adult needs to metabolize
105 grams of proteid food daily? As Voit has well said, the smallest
amount of food that will serve to maintain physiological equilibrium and
keep up health and strength is the ideal diet. The eleven subjects of
this Hospital detachment, who remained throughout the experiment, were
apparently able to maintain physiological equilibrium and preserve their
health and strength under the conditions of diet as described, thereby
demonstrating the possibilities of a physiological economy corresponding
to a saving of full fifty per cent or more in proteid food; a saving
of possibly great physiological import, to say nothing of the possible
economic and sociological importance of the saving. Further, we may add
that the minimal proteid requirement as evidenced by the results of these
experiments is more than fifty per cent lower than the figures quoted by
most physiologists as necessary for the maintenance of life and strength;
and we are certainly justified in the additional statement that if the
figures obtained in these experiments truly represent the _minimal_
proteid requirement of the men under observation, then this minimal
requirement is quite sufficient to meet the physiological needs of the
body for an indefinite period.


PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE MEN.

Recalling the fact that this condition of lowered proteid metabolism
was maintained for a period of five months, we may next consider the
effect of this changed nutritive condition upon the health and strength
of the men. The question of body-weight we have already considered. More
pertinent is the question, to how great an extent was the strength and
bodily vigor of the men modified by the diminished amount of proteid
food? The answer to this question is found in the subjoined report from
Dr. William G. Anderson, Director of the Yale University Gymnasium.

                                    YALE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM,
                                    NEW HAVEN, CONN., April 6, 1904.

    To Professor RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN, _Director of the Sheffield
    Scientific School, Yale University_, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

    DEAR SIR,—I hand you herewith a report of the physical training
    of the squad of soldiers sent by you to the Yale Gymnasium.

    These men have taken one hour’s exercise daily for six months,
    Sundays excepted,—October 1, 1903, to April 1, 1904.

    Before beginning the bodily development of the men we measured
    each one and took what are known as the American Collegiate
    Strength Tests. These measurements and tests have been taken
    twice each month. For details as to measurements and methods of
    testing the strength of the body, see the “Notes” attached to
    this report.

    The members of the squad were called to the floor each morning
    as soon after nine-thirty as they could don the required suit.
    For twenty minutes they were put through a series of setting up
    exercises and body-building movements; then followed exercises
    on the apparatus, such as bars, rings, ladders, etc. This was
    followed by a jump or game.

    The exercises were progressive as to duration, force, extent,
    and number of movements. At the end of the six months the
    men were being put through gymnastics that were exacting and
    fatiguing. As the progression was carefully made, the men
    did not suffer from soreness to any marked degree. By way of
    comparison it may be said, the gymnastic training given the
    soldiers was much more severe than is given to the Freshmen of
    Yale in their required physical training. Perhaps the Varsity
    Crew are “put through” as rigid gymnastic training as any of
    the athletes in college, so we copied the exercises taken by
    oarsmen in order to “try out” the soldiers. This work was
    easily taken by all the “Dieters,”—no complaint, so far as I
    know, having been entered.

    The improvement in accuracy and grace of movement has been
    noticeable, while there has been a gain in skill as well.

    I do not consider these men, as a body, well put up. They did
    not rank favorably with applicants for policeman or fireman
    and were noticeably timid in exercises that called for
    courage. In the vault over a fence there was a very marked
    fear. This was the poorest and least satisfactory test of all
    we made. At the end of the six months the hesitancy to vault
    had entirely disappeared, the event being looked upon by the
    men as a “cinch.”

    The gain in self-reliance and courage has been as evident as
    the increase in the figures of the strength test. I consider
    this a valuable acquisition as it stands for a good body
    condition. Among athletes, especially gymnasts, a weakened or
    tired body is made known by fear or uncertainty. Our students,
    as well as professional athletes, admit this.

    I attribute the timidity of the soldiers in these seemingly
    simple tests to their general physical condition at the outset,
    and the increase in self-reliance to the better condition of
    their bodies at the end of the six months’ training. The story
    told by the measurements is both interesting and significant,
    but of less importance than the ability to improve under
    training, which ability cannot be measured with a tape or
    weighed with scales.

    In the majority of cases there was a loss in body-weight, but
    this we look for, as the larger number of soldiers were fairly
    well supplied with adipose tissue. Both Sliney and Oakman are
    exceptions, these men being “fine” at the outset. I mean thin
    and muscular with little fat. The latter, Oakman, is an old
    man judged from the physical activity standpoint, and lost
    noticeably during the tests and exercise. I refer to weight
    and girth measurements only. He made a very large gain in his
    strength tests and was among the leading men in all that called
    for courage and self-control. Sliney, nervous, irritable, and
    aggressive, balanced his losses with his gains in the tape and
    scale events, but made great improvement in the use of the
    dynamometers. Fritz and Cohn were quite fat and showed the
    expected loss in weight, but not in other respects.

    For comparison I have quoted from Dr. J. W. Seaver’s
    anthropometric charts and have selected the “Average Student
    Measurements” (2390 men) as well as the mean measurements of
    500 athletes and gymnasts. A glance at either set of figures
    will give an idea of how the soldiers compare with men living
    on a regular diet and surrounded with the very best environment.

    The strength tests stand for mental states more than the tape
    line and calipers, and are suggestive of improvement in body
    conditions for the reasons mentioned above. These records are
    far above those made by Academic Freshmen in Yale, but it must
    be added that the soldiers have taken more exercise than the
    collegians.

    The hearts and lungs of the men are in excellent condition,
    while the soldiers as a body are in better shape physically,
    are stronger and healthier than in October. The skin of the men
    is clear and ruddy.

    The figures for comparison in the Strength Test Table are from
    the records sent me by Dr. Geo. Meylan, the Director of the
    Columbia University Gymnasium. I understand that others than
    college men are represented in his data. In the figures given
    in my own tables I have omitted the small fractions in the main
    body of the tables, but have recorded them in the totals.

    The greater portion of the training of the soldiers has been
    under the personal supervision of Wm. H. Callahan, M. D., the
    Medical Assistant at the Gymnasium, to whom I am indebted for
    help and suggestions. Mr. Wm. Chase, Mr. Anton Muller, Mr. John
    Stapleton, and Mr. H. R. Gladwin, Assistant Instructors in
    the Gymnasium, have led the drills and have looked after the
    actual muscular training of the men. I gladly acknowledge the
    co-operation of these gentlemen in the physical development of
    the squad.

    A brief summary of my conclusions:—

    The men were not above the average standard, physically, when
    they began their work, this standard being set by applicants
    for firemen and policemen, not by college students. At the end
    of their training they were much above the same standard, while
    their strength tests were far greater than the averages made by
    college men. They showed less improvement in increase in size
    than University men do under like gymnastic treatment, but the
    gain in self-confidence and in body-fibre was very evident. The
    gain in accuracy and skill was marked. The men showed interest
    in their work throughout the six months. At the end of the
    period of training the soldiers were in excellent condition in
    spite of the fact that in some cases there was a slight loss of
    body-weight. This loss is not to be attributed necessarily to
    the diet, because most men who exercise lose slightly if there
    is an excess of adipose tissue.

                          Respectfully yours,

                                            (Signed) W. G. ANDERSON.

[Illustration: LOEWENTHAL

MORRIS

_Photographs taken at the close of the experiment._]

Dr. Anderson furnishes the following “Notes” descriptive of the methods
by which the strength tests were made:

“_Strength of Back._ The subject, standing upon the iron foot-rest with
the dynamometer so arranged that when grasping the handles with both
hands his body will be inclined forward at an angle of 60 degrees, should
take a full breath and, without bending the knees, give one hard lift,
mostly with the back.

“_Strength of Legs._ The subject while standing on the foot-rest with
body and head erect, and chest thrown forward, should sink down, by
bending the knees, until the handle grasped rests against the thighs,
then taking a full breath, he should lift hard principally with the legs,
using the hands to hold the handle in place.

“_Strength of Chest._ The subject with his elbows extended at the
sides until the forearms are on the same horizontal plane and holding
the dynamometer so that the dial will face outward and the indicator
point upward, should take a full breath and push vigorously against the
handles, allowing the back of the instrument to press on the chest.

“_Strength of Upper Arms, Triceps._ The subject, while holding the
position of rest upon the parallel bars, supporting his weight with arms
straight, should let the body down until the chin is level with the bars,
and then push it up again until the arms are fully extended. Note the
number of times that he can lift himself in this manner.

“_Strength of Upper Arms, Biceps._ The subject should grasp a horizontal
bar or pair of rings and hang with the feet clear from the floor while
the arms are extended. Note the number of times that he can haul his body
up until his chin touches the bar or ring.

“_Strength of Forearms._ The subject, while holding the dynamometer so
that the dial is turned inward, should squeeze the spring as hard as
possible, first with the right hand then with the left. The strength of
the muscles between the shoulders may be tested with the same instrument.
The subject, while holding the dynamometer on a level with the chest,
should grasp it with handles and pull both arms from the centre outward.

“_The total strength_ is ascertained by multiplying the weight by the
number of times it has been raised (push up and pull up), to this
product we add the strength of hands, legs, back, and chest. The result
is the total strength of the man. In some cases the product obtained by
multiplying the weight by push up and pull up is divided by ten to reduce
the size of the figures. We have not done so here.

“The run, vault, and ladder tests are not figured in. The lung capacity
is also omitted from the final figures.”

       *       *       *       *       *

The following tables furnished by Dr. Anderson and Dr. Callahan give (1)
the _measurements_ of the eleven men who completed the experiment, taken
on October 12, 1903, and April 2, 1904. For comparison are also given
measurements of Yale College students, athletes, etc. (2) _Strength_ or
dynamometer tests, _i. e._, the first test taken in October and the final
test taken in April, 1904, together with Columbia University strength
tests for comparison. (3) A series of eleven tables giving for each man
the individual strength tests, two or three each month, taken during the
stay of the detachment in New Haven. Study of these individual results
is quite interesting, since it shows very strikingly the gradual gain
in strength of the men, and at the same time illustrates how temporary
conditions, bodily or mental, may influence a record of this character,
more noticeable in some individuals than in others. Mental stimulus, as
is well known, counts for much in the manifestation of muscular power,
but the neuro-muscular mechanism depends for its highest efficiency upon
the nutritive condition of the tissues as much as does the muscle tissue
alone. In the obtaining of a strength test, it is usually found that the
best results are recorded when there is competition among the men; _i.
e._, under the influence of an outside stimulus.


MEASUREMENTS.

(OCTOBER 12—APRIL 2.)

  +---------------+--------+-----+------+-------+---------+---------+
  |               |Weight.*|Girth|Waist.| Chest | Chest   | Chest   |
  |               |        |Neck.|      |Normal.|Inflated.|Deflated.|
  +---------------+--------+-----+------+-------+---------+---------+
  |Henderson      |   157  | 362 |  755 |  953  |  1035   |   890   |
  |               |   153  | 369 |  731 |  942  |  1025   |   886   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Oakman         |   145  | 344 |  738 |  888  |   947   |   793   |
  |               |   137  | 336 |  727 |  869  |   938   |   795   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Morris         |   129  | 340 |  713 |  850  |   932   |   831   |
  |               |   131  | 351 |  719 |  862  |   938   |   834   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Zooman         |   120  | 350 |  713 |  868  |   920   |   804   |
  |               |   122  | 360 |  712 |  859  |   914   |   803   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Coffman        |   129  | 352 |  738 |  860  |   923   |   815   |
  |               |   127  | 349 |  716 |  857  |   931   |   818   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Steltz         |   116  | 330 |  713 |  815  |   850   |   779   |
  |               |   115  | 330 |  717 |  821  |   857   |   771   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Loewenthal     |   133  | 338 |  680 |  835  |   881   |   822   |
  |               |   130  | 341 |  684 |  840  |   890   |   819   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Sliney         |   135  | 359 |  718 |  824  |   930   |   823   |
  |               |   133  | 361 |  702 |  834  |   926   |   813   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Fritz          |   167  | 390 |  860 |  880  |   930   |   860   |
  |               |   161  | 361 |  795 |  892  |   997   |   855   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Cohn           |   142  | 363 |  810 |  871  |   912   |   832   |
  |               |   138  | 354 |  771 |  878  |   914   |   818   |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Broyles        |   130  | 356 |  710 |  851  |   941   |   805   |
  |               |   133  | 370 |  720 |  864  |   966   |   798   |
  +---------------+--------+-----+------+-------+---------+---------+
  |Yale College†  |   139  | 350 |  730 |  861  |   910   |         |
  |               |        |     |      |       |         |         |
  |Yale College‡  |   147  | 357 |  747 |  886  |   940   |         |
  +---------------+--------+-----+------+-------+---------+---------+

  +---------------+-------+------+-------+-----+------+-----+
  |               | Right | Right| Left  |Left | Left |Right|
  |               |Biceps.|Thigh.|Biceps.|Calf.|Thigh.|Calf.|
  +---------------+-------+------+-------+-----+------+-----+
  |Henderson      |  316  |  510 |  291  | 362 | 500  | 351 |
  |               |  311  |  503 |  287  | 357 | 495  | 347 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Oakman         |  305  |  508 |  289  | 335 | 512  | 330 |
  |               |  297  |  502 |  282  | 331 | 507  | 331 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Morris         |  280  |  519 |  283  | 327 | 502  | 325 |
  |               |  285  |  525 |  290  | 333 | 509  | 332 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Zooman         |  290  |  479 |  286  | 312 | 478  | 313 |
  |               |  307  |  486 |  293  | 315 | 484  | 314 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Coffman        |  309  |  518 |  311  | 354 | 520  | 350 |
  |               |  314  |  527 |  316  | 359 | 529  | 354 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Steltz         |  291  |  487 |  283  | 319 | 483  | 318 |
  |               |  287  |  492 |  281  | 324 | 478  | 322 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Loewenthal     |  315  |  510 |  311  | 338 | 512  | 333 |
  |               |  306  |  504 |  302  | 342 | 505  | 337 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Sliney         |  314  |  476 |  302  | 331 | 473  | 330 |
  |               |  306  |  475 |  298  | 333 | 475  | 332 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Fritz          |  360  |  560 |  343  | 377 | 562  | 375 |
  |               |  358  |  555 |  340  | 372 | 559  | 373 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Cohn           |  326  |  536 |  310  | 374 | 528  | 375 |
  |               |  324  |  529 |  308  | 371 | 520  | 371 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Broyles        |  281  |  500 |  282  | 341 | 498  | 334 |
  |               |  283  |  506 |  284  | 344 | 501  | 338 |
  +---------------+-------+------+-------+-----+------+-----+
  |Yale College†  |  295  |  515 |       | 350 | 509  | 350 |
  |               |       |      |       |     |      |     |
  |Yale College‡  |  308  |  534 |       | 358 | 527  | 361 |
  +---------------+-------+------+-------+-----+------+-----+

  [*] Given here in pounds.

  [†] Yale College students, 50% class of the mass of students (2,390 men).

  [‡] Yale College students, 50% or mean of 500 athletes and gymnasts,
  picked men.


STRENGTH OR DYNAMOMETER TESTS.

FIRST TRIALS OCTOBER, 1903; FINAL TEST APRIL, 1904.

  +------------+-------+---------+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+----+
  |            |Weight.|Lung     |Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|    |
  |            |       |Capacity.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |    |
  +------------+-------+---------+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+----+
  | Henderson  |  157  |   465   | 103 | 105 | 130  | 340 | 560 |Oct.|
  |            |  153  |   555   | 135 | 105 | 135  | 600 | 865 |Apr.|
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Oakman     |  145  |   365   | 110 | 115 |  95  | 305 | 500 |    |
  |            |  137  |   410   | 130 | 100 | 120  | 560 | 720 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Morris     |  129  |   320   |  90 |  75 |  75  | 270 | 350 |    |
  |            |  131  |   360   | 100 |  85 | 105  | 450 | 710 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Zooman     |  120  |   400   | 110 |  90 | 130  | 350 | 350 |    |
  |            |  122  |   420   | 115 |  95 | 100  | 440 | 910 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Coffman    |  129  |   290   | 105 | 103 | 100  | 320 | 530 |    |
  |            |  127  |   400   | 105 |  85 | 110  | 440 | 830 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Steltz     |  116  |   300   |  80 |  85 | 105  | 300 | 400 |    |
  |            |  115  |   380   | 100 |  90 | 135  | 410 | 490 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Loewenthal |  133  |   365   | 100 |  95 |  85  | 260 | 460 |    |
  |            |  130  |   425   | 130 | 115 | 115  | 570 | 700 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Sliney     |  135  |   380   | 125 | 130 | 100  | 400 | 600 |    |
  |            |  133  |   420   | 145 | 135 | 115  | 508 | 800 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Fritz      |  167  |   480   | 121 |  85 | 120  | 310 | 615 |    |
  |            |  161  |   495   | 140 | 110 | 115  | 720 |1030 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Cohn       |  142  |   320   |  50 |  75 |  80  | 245 | 340 |    |
  |            |  138  |   400   |  90 |  90 |  97  | 370 | 580 |    |
  |            |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  | Broyles    |  130  |   485   | 105 |  95 |  90  | 340 | 560 |    |
  |            |  134  |   515   | 105 | 110 | 135  | 560 | 875 |    |
  +------------+-------+---------+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+----+
  | Columbia   |  138  |   410   | 103 | 100 |      | 332 | 417 |    |
  |University* |       |         |     |     |      |     |     |    |
  +------------+-------+---------+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+----+

  +------------+--------+--------+----------+------+-------+------+----+
  |            |Pull up,|Push up,|One-fourth|Vault.|Ladder.|Total.|    |
  |            |Biceps. |Triceps.|mile Run. |      |       |      |    |
  +------------+--------+--------+----------+------+-------+------+----+
  | Henderson  |   8    |   3    |   1.25   |  D†  |  E†   | 2970 |Oct.|
  |            |   9    |   9    |   1.08   |  E   |  E    | 4598 |Apr.|
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Oakman     |  12    |   4    |   1.24   |  D   |  D    | 3445 |    |
  |            |  15    |  10    |   1.21   |  E   |  E    | 5055 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Morris     |   9    |   4    |   1.30   |  D   |  D    | 2543 |    |
  |            |  14    |  12    |   1.09   |  E   |  E    | 4869 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Zooman     |   8    |   9    |   1.40   |  F   |  E    | 3070 |    |
  |            |  13    |  18    |   1.13   |  E   |  E    | 5457 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Coffman    |   7    |   6    |   1.20   |  F   |  F    | 2835 |    |
  |            |  20    |  17    |   1.13   |  E   |  E    | 6269 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Steltz     |  10    |   6    |   1.30   |  E   |  E    | 2838 |    |
  |            |  19    |  10    |   1.06   |  E   |  E    | 4581 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Loewenthal |   6    |   5    |   1.20   |  E   |  E    | 2463 |    |
  |            |  16    |  12    |   1.08   |  E   |  E    | 5277 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Sliney     |   8    |   6    |   1.15   |  E   |  E    | 3245 |    |
  |            |  15    |  12    |   1.08   |  E   |  E    | 5307 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Fritz      |   4    |   3    |   2.40   |  D   |  D    | 2504 |    |
  |            |  11    |   8    |   1.17   |  E   |  E    | 5178 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Cohn       |   3    |   6    |   2.30   |  D   |  D    | 2210 |    |
  |            |   9    |  11    |   1.14   |  E   |  E    | 4002 |    |
  |            |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  | Broyles    |   6    |   4    |   1.45   |  D   |  F    | 2560 |    |
  |            |  15    |  13    |   1.15   |  E   |  E    | 5530 |    |
  +------------+--------+--------+----------+------+-------+------+----+
  | Columbia   |   9    |   8    |          |      |       |      |    |
  |University* |        |        |          |      |       |      |    |
  +------------+--------+--------+----------+------+-------+------+----+

  [*] Columbia University strength test records for comparison. The 50% or
  mean test. From Dr. Meylan.

  [†] D = difficult; E = easy; F = failure.

[Illustration: _Soldiers exercising in the gymnasium._]


INDIVIDUAL STRENGTH TESTS.


MORRIS.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  129  |  9 |  4 |  90 |  75 |   75 | 270 | 350 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  130  |  7 |  2 |  95 |  75 |   75 | 250 | 430 |   D   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  132  |  8 |  5 |  85 |  70 |   80 | 250 | 400 |   D   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  133  | 12 |  7 | 108 |  84 |   85 | 340 | 457 |   F   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  132  | 12 |  3 |  95 |  70 |   90 | 315 | 450 |   F   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  134  | 10 |  6 |  95 |  85 |   75 | 350 | 455 |   F   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  130  |  7 |  4 | 100 | 100 |   85 | 400 | 490 |   F   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  129  | 10 |  6 | 100 |  85 |   90 | 260 | 475 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  131  | 10 |  6 |  95 |  69 |   90 | 260 | 445 |   E   |
  |Jan. 24, ’04|  132  | 10 |  5 |  80 |  80 |   85 | 340 | 510 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  130  |  7 |  6 |  80 |  70 |   85 | 280 |     |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  134  |  5 |  6 | 100 | 100 |   90 | 310 | 450 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  131  | 10 | 10 |  90 |  85 |   95 | 375 | 550 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  132  | 10 |  9 |  98 |  82 |  100 | 370 | 500 |   E   |
  |April 2, ’04|  131  | 14 | 12 | 100 |  85 |  105 | 450 | 710 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   320   |   1.30   |  1683  | 2543 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   310   |   1.40   |  1170  | 2095 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   320   |          |  1120  | 2667 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   380   |   1.45   |  2536  | 3620 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   325   |   1.18   |  2046  | 3066 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   350   |   1.14   |  2152  | 3212 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   340   |   1.12   |  1430  | 2605 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   330   |   1.11   |  2075  | 3085 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   345   |   1.15   |  2108  | 3067 |
  |Jan. 24, ’04|   350   |   1.18   |  1980  | 3075 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   345   |   1.14   |  1699  | 2214 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   360   |   1.09   |  1479  | 2529 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   320   |   1.14   |  2620  | 3815 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   360   |   1.15   |  2508  | 3658 |
  |April 2, ’04|   360   |   1.09   |  3419  | 4869 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


COFFMAN.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  129  |  7 |  6 | 105 | 103 |  100 | 320 | 530 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  129  |  9 |  8 | 110 |  85 |  120 | 350 | 500 |   F   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  129  |  9 | 12 | 100 | 100 |  110 | 350 | 610 |   F   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  131  | 13 | 12 | 105 | 100 |  125 | 370 | 725 |   E   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  130  | 12 | 11 |  95 |  85 |  120 | 320 | 620 |   E   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  133  | 13 | 13 | 107 |  83 |  111 | 330 | 530 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  129  | 15 | 12 | 100 |  98 |  120 | 390 | 649 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  126  | 12 | 12 | 100 |  85 |  100 | 250 | 580 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  127  | 12 | 12 | 100 |  86 |  107 | 350 | 575 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  127  | 15 | 11 | 105 |  97 |  100 | 465 | 680 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  126  | 15 | 14 |  95 |  85 |  100 | 410 | 725 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  126  | 17 | 14 | 100 |  95 |   90 | 460 | 555 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  126  | 18 | 16 |  90 |  95 |  100 | 425 | 675 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  129  | 19 | 16 | 115 |  93 |  100 | 430 | 600 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  127  | 20 | 17 | 105 |  85 |  110 | 440 | 830 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   290   |   1.20   |  1677  | 2835 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   310   |   1.09   |  2193  | 3358 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   345   |   1.11   |  2719  | 4119 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   350   |   1.12   |  3287  | 4727 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   360   |   1.12   |  2990  | 4230 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   380   |   1.12   |  3471  | 4632 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   375   |   1.12   |  3483  | 4840 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   365   |   1.07   |  3042  | 4157 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   360   |   1.12   |  3060  | 4278 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   400   |   1.13   |  3312  | 4759 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   390   |   1.11   |  3675  | 5090 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   380   |   1.09   |  3921  | 5221 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   390   |   1.14   |  4284  | 5669 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   400   |   1.10   |  4515  | 5913 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   400   |   1.13   |  4699  | 6269 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


OAKMAN.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct. 1, ’03 |  145  | 12 |  4 | 110 | 115 |   95 | 305 | 500 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  146  |  9 |  5 | 112 | 111 |  120 | 360 | 507 |   D   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  148  | 10 |  6 | 120 | 115 |  120 | 480 | 580 |   F   |
  |Nov. 9, ’03 |  150  | 13 |  9 | 123 | 121 |  125 | 390 | 620 |   F   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  147  | 12 |  5 | 125 |     |  125 | 410 | 620 |   F   |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |  147  | 12 |  9 | 135 | 105 |  112 | 340 | 590 |   F   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  141  | 10 |  6 | 125 | 120 |  115 | 390 | 570 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  139  | 13 |  9 | 105 | 100 |  110 | 350 | 540 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  143  |  9 |  6 | 106 | 104 |  112 | 345 | 545 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  142  | 12 |  6 | 120 | 102 |  105 | 350 | 610 |   E   |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |  138  | 13 |  8 | 110 | 105 |  100 | 425 | 700 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  143  | 12 |  7 | 120 | 110 |  100 | 380 | 800 |   E   |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |  137  | 12 |  8 | 105 | 110 |  120 | 400 | 700 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  143  | 12 |  5 | 115 |  90 |  105 | 400 | 575 |   E   |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |  137  | 15 | 10 | 130 | 100 |  120 | 560 | 720 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct. 1, ’03 |   365   |   1.24   |  2320  | 3445 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   375   |   1.30   |  2044  | 3254 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   400   |   1.40   |  2368  | 3783 |
  |Nov. 9, ’03 |   406   |   1.40   |  3150  | 4529 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   360   |   1.25   |  2499  | 3779 |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |   405   |   1.24   |  3092  | 4374 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   400   |   1.25   |  2264  | 3584 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   380   |   1.29   |  3058  | 4263 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   370   |   1.27   |  2152  | 3365 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   410   |   1.29   |  2556  | 3843 |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |   435   |   1.26   |  2913  | 4353 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   430   |   1.28   |  2716  | 4226 |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |   440   |   1.26   |  2755  | 4190 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   440   |   1.25   |  2439  | 3724 |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |   410   |   1.21   |  3425  | 5055 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


ZOOMAN.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  120  |  8 |  9 | 110 |  90 |  130 | 350 | 350 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  121  |  9 | 12 | 100 |  95 |  130 | 360 | 370 |   F   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  124  | 11 | 17 | 115 |  75 |  130 | 400 | 400 |   F   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  126  |  9 | 18 | 115 | 107 |  125 | 365 | 540 |   E   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  120  | 13 | 20 | 110 | 100 |  117 | 350 | 470 |   E   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  123  | 12 | 18 | 120 | 105 |  103 | 445 | 520 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  120  | 12 | 17 | 100 |  90 |  110 | 360 | 490 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  119  | 12 | 17 | 105 |  90 |  115 | 350 | 495 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  122  | 11 | 15 | 112 | 102 |  117 | 320 | 520 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  121  | 11 | 14 | 105 |  95 |  115 | 422 | 535 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  122  | 10 | 17 |  95 |  85 |  115 | 460 | 545 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  121  | 10 | 17 | 100 | 105 |  112 | 350 | 570 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  119  | 12 | 18 | 105 |  95 |  100 | 425 | 700 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  125  | 12 | 19 | 105 |  94 |  105 | 375 | 650 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  122  | 13 | 18 | 115 |  95 |  100 | 440 | 910 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   400   |   1.40   |  2040  | 3070 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   410   |   1.28   |  2551  | 3616 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   440   |   1.11   |  3472  | 4592 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   420   |   1.14   |  3415  | 4681 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   400   |   1.12   |  3968  | 5115 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   380   |   1.10   |  3690  | 4983 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   410   |   1.14   |  3540  | 4690 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   420   |   1.14   |  3472  | 4627 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   420   |   1.21   |  3172  | 4303 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   405   |   1.13   |  3043  | 4315 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   420   |   1.10   |  3313  | 4613 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   408   |   1.12   |  3260  | 4497 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   410   |   1.12   |  3570  | 4995 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   420   |   1.13   |  3875  | 5204 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   420   |   1.13   |  3797  | 5457 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


STELTZ.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  116  | 10 |  6 |  80 |  85 |  105 | 300 | 400 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  118  | 11 |  5 |  95 |  78 |  120 | 310 | 520 |   D   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  118  | 15 | 10 |  80 |  80 |  120 | 320 | 450 |   F   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  120  | 15 | 10 |  91 |  96 |  127 | 375 | 505 |   F   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  118  | 17 |  7 |  95 | 110 |  115 | 310 | 430 |   E   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  119  | 10 |  8 |  93 |  85 |   78 | 330 | 365 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  116  | 12 |  4 |  85 |  62 |  115 | 380 | 335 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  116  | 15 | 10 |  75 |  65 |   95 | 250 | 300 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  119  | 11 | 11 |  85 |  90 |  115 | 270 | 415 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  118  | 13 |  7 |  72 |  82 |  135 | 365 | 440 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  118  | 17 | 11 | 100 |  80 |  130 | 360 | 500 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  117  | 17 |  8 |  80 |  95 |  120 | 370 | 360 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  116  | 17 |  9 |  90 | 100 |   95 | 375 | 500 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  117  | 19 |  7 |  90 |  90 |  100 | 300 | 320 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  116  | 19 | 10 | 100 |  90 |  135 | 410 | 490 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   300   |   1.30   |  1868  | 2838 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   320   |   1.22   |  1888  | 2911 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   360   |   1.12   |  2962  | 4012 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   345   |   1.20   |  3000  | 4194 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   375   |   1.20   |  2844  | 3904 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   400   |   1.24   |  2148  | 3099 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   400   |   1.15   |  1984  | 2961 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   380   |   1.09   |  2912  | 3697 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   380   |   1.10   |  2618  | 3593 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   380   |   1.07   |  2370  | 3464 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   405   |   1.08   |  3304  | 4474 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   420   |   1.08   |  2937  | 3962 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   400   |   1.06   |  3016  | 4176 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   400   |   1.06   |  3055  | 3955 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   380   |   1.06   |  3356  | 4581 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


HENDERSON.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  157  |  8 |  3 | 103 | 105 |  130 | 340 | 560 |   F   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  159  |  6 |  5 | 115 | 115 |  135 | 300 | 500 |   F   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  162  |  9 |  9 | 105 | 105 |  140 | 420 | 700 |   E   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  157  | 11 |  9 | 135 | 115 |  145 | 500 | 750 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     |       |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  153  |  5 |  4 | 105 |     |  125 | 250 | 365 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  153  |  5 |  5 |  85 |  60 |  135 | 320 | 595 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  155  |  5 |  3 | 100 |  65 |  105 | 350 | 460 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  151  |  5 |  5 |  85 |  80 |  115 | 350 | 400 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  153  |  9 |  7 | 110 | 115 |  125 | 450 | 610 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  151  |  8 |  7 | 130 | 110 |  120 | 550 | 875 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  155  |  9 |  8 | 122 | 100 |  125 | 370 | 570 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  153  |  9 |  9 | 135 | 105 |  135 | 600 | 865 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   465   |   1.25   |  1727  | 2965 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   485   |   1.19   |  1749  | 2914 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   525   |   1.07   |  2925  | 4428 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   515   |   1.07   |  3140  | 3145 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|         |          |        |      |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   520   |   1.16   |  1379  | 2109 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   530   |   1.18   |  1535  | 2730 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   540   |   1.14   |  1244  | 2332 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   465   |   1.12   |  1512  | 2542 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   535   |   1.13   |  2460  | 3870 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   540   |   1.13   |  2265  | 4050 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   550   |   1.12   |  2635  | 3922 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   555   |   1.08   |  2758  | 4598 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


LOEWENTHAL.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|  133  |  6 |  5 | 100 |  95 |   85 | 260 | 460 |   D   |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  133  | 12 |  6 | 120 | 115 |   90 | 340 | 470 |   F   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  134  |  7 |    | 125 | 110 |  105 | 370 | 490 |   F   |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|  135  |  6 |  8 | 126 | 123 |  120 | 365 | 555 |   F   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  134  |  7 |  8 | 110 | 100 |  120 | 370 | 420 |   E   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  135  | 13 | 11 | 125 | 105 |   85 | 350 | 390 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  130  |  8 |  4 | 115 | 105 |   85 | 345 | 480 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  130  | 10 |  6 |  90 |  80 |  105 | 230 | 300 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  130  | 12 |  9 | 106 | 104 |  117 | 360 | 480 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  130  |    |    |  60 | 108 |   80 | 410 | 465 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  130  | 13 |  8 | 115 | 120 |  115 | 455 | 550 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  133  | 14 |  6 | 115 | 105 |  100 | 430 | 500 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  130  | 14 |  9 | 125 | 120 |  115 | 450 | 700 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  132  |  6 | 11 | 103 | 113 |  120 | 370 | 500 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  130  | 16 | 12 | 130 | 115 |  115 | 570 | 700 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct.  1, ’03|   365   |   1.20   |  1463  | 2463 |
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   370   |   1.11   |  2403  | 3538 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   360   |   1.25   |   938  | 2138 |
  |Nov.  9, ’03|   365   |   1.20   |  1897  | 3179 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   365   |   1.14   |  2021  | 3137 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   380   |          |  3240  | 4195 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   360   |   1.15   |  1560  | 2690 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   380   |          |  2080  | 2885 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   380   |   1.12   |  2740  | 3908 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   385   |   1.15   |        |      |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   420   |   1.09   |  2730  | 4085 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   385   |   1.08   |  2670  | 3920 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   420   |   1.14   |  3007  | 4517 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   420   |   1.10   |  2244  | 3450 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   425   |   1.08   |  3647  | 5277 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


SLINEY.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct. 12, ’03|  135  |  8 |  6 | 125 | 130 | 100  | 400 | 600 |   D   |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|  136  |  8 |  9 | 140 | 110 | 100  | 350 | 370 |   F   |
  |Nov. 9, ’03 |  139  | 12 | 10 | 150 | 135 | 105  | 460 | 560 |   F   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  136  |  7 | 11 | 130 | 110 |  95  | 330 | 570 |   E   |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |  136  | 11 | 11 | 135 | 125 | 110  | 445 | 620 |   E   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  131  |  6 | 11 | 130 | 155 |  95  | 400 | 590 |   E   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  131  | 14 | 12 | 130 | 120 | 130  | 370 | 555 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  138  | 11 | 12 | 140 | 135 | 115  | 355 | 690 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  137  | 10 | 10 | 140 | 122 | 100  | 400 | 745 |   E   |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |  138  | 11 | 11 | 138 | 132 | 105  | 450 | 575 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  139  | 12 | 10 | 140 | 145 |  99  | 430 | 650 |   E   |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |  135  | 14 | 13 | 150 | 130 | 110  | 525 | 825 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  139  | 14 |  9 | 145 | 138 | 115  | 340 | 565 |   E   |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |  133  | 15 | 12 | 145 | 135 | 115  | 508 | 800 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct. 12, ’03|   380   |   1.15   |  1890  | 3245 |
  |Oct. 26, ’03|   370   |   1.13   |  2260  | 3450 |
  |Nov. 9, ’03 |   420   |   1.14   |  3127  | 4537 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   365   |   1.11   |  2448  | 3683 |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |   400   |   1.13   |  3071  | 4506 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   400   |   1.09   |  2231  | 3591 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   420   |   1.09   |  3419  | 4724 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   410   |   1.15   |  3174  | 4609 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   410   |   1.12   |  2745  | 4252 |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |   405   |   1.08   |  3105  | 4405 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   405   |   1.08   |  3063  | 4527 |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |   440   |   1.08   |  3651  | 5391 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   440   |   1.07   |  3197  | 4500 |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |   420   |   1.08   |  3604  | 5307 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


FRITZ.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Oct. 31, ’03|  167  |  4 |  3 | 121 |  85 |  120 | 310 | 615 |   D   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  168  |  6 |  4 | 140 |  90 |  120 | 370 |1050 |   F   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  172  | 10 |  6 | 130 |  95 |  124 | 345 | 565 |   F   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  165  |  7 |  4 | 135 |  85 |  120 | 350 | 720 |   F   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  164  |  8 |  9 | 110 |  85 |   90 | 250 | 415 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  165  |  6 | 11 | 118 |  72 |  115 | 425 | 560 |   E   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  165  | 11 |  5 | 142 | 117 |  125 | 600 | 880 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  165  | 12 |  5 | 130 |  95 |  120 | 580 | 960 |   E   |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|  162  | 11 |  7 | 125 |  80 |  110 | 550 | 875 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  165  | 10 |  2*| 125 |  85 |  110 | 600 | 830 |   E   |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|  161  | 11 |  8 | 140 | 110 |  115 | 720 |1030 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  * Sore arm.

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Oct. 31, ’03|   480   |   2.40   |  1252  | 2504 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   480   |   1.30   |  1685  | 3455 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   480   |   1.20   |  2752  | 4011 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   485   |   1.19   |  1820  | 3230 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   500   |   1.20   |  2788  | 3538 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   525   |   1.18   |  2809  | 4099 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   510   |   1.25   |  2640  | 4504 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   520   |   1.18   |  2813  | 4678 |
  |Mar.  8, ’04|   500   |   1.21   |  2916  | 4656 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   500   |   1.16   |  1986  | 3736 |
  |Apr.  2, ’04|   495   |   1.17   |  3063  | 5178 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+


COHN.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Nov. 13, ’03|  142  |  3 |  6 |  50 |  75 |   80 | 245 | 340 |   D   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  144  |  7 |  5 | 105 |  95 |   87 | 270 | 430 |   D   |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|  145  |  7 |  8 |  85 |  70 |  105 | 310 | 490 |   D   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  141  |    |    |  89 |  65 |   80 | 270 | 370 |   D   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  142  |  6 |  7 |  80 |  60 |   87 | 230 | 380 |   D   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  141  |  1 |  9 |  70 |  70 |   80 | 280 | 370 |   F   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  140  |  6 |  5 | 112 |  73 |  100 | 300 | 370 |   F   |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|  142  |  6 | 10 |  90 |  75 |   90 | 350 | 475 |   F   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  143  |  7 | 11 |  85 |  90 |  100 | 260 | 450 |   F   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  142  |  8 | 10 |  85 |  99 |  100 | 260 | 360 |   E   |
  |Apr.  1, ’04|  138  |  9 | 11 |  90 |  90 |   97 | 370 | 580 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Nov. 13, ’03|   320   |   2.30   |  1420  | 2188 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   360   |   1.38   |  1802  | 2687 |
  |Dec.  1, ’03|   350   |   1.28   |  2253  | 3313 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   360   |   1.25   |        |      |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   320   |   1.33   |  1846  | 2513 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   350   |   1.20   |  1410  | 2290 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   365   |   1.18   |  1542  | 2497 |
  |Feb.  9, ’04|   360   |   1.19   |  2280  | 3360 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   370   |   1.16   |  2583  | 3568 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   360   |   1.16   |  2556  | 3460 |
  |Apr.  1, ’04|   400   |   1.14   |  2775  | 4002 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+

[Illustration: SLINEY

_Photograph taken at the close of the experiment._]


BROYLES.

  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |            |       |    |    |     |     |      |     |     | Vault |
  |            |Weight.|Pull|Push|Right|Left |Chest.|Back.|Legs.|  and  |
  |            |       | up.| up.|Hand.|Hand.|      |     |     |Ladder.|
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+
  |Nov. 13, ’03|  130  |  6 |  4 | 105 |  95 |  90  | 340 | 560 |   D   |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|  127  |  9 | 10 |  95 | 100 |  95  | 370 | 630 |   F   |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |  130  | 13 | 11 | 130 | 120 | 105  | 420 | 680 |   F   |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|  129  |  9 | 13 | 110 | 110 | 125  | 370 | 470 |   F   |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|  123  | 15 | 11 | 105 |  90 | 125  | 300 | 600 |   E   |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|  126  | 15 | 12 | 101 |  95 | 130  | 370 | 580 |   E   |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|  130  | 10 |  8 | 103 |  95 | 120  | 470 | 890 |   E   |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |  130  | 10 | 10 | 105 | 105 | 115  | 510 | 625 |   E   |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|  134  | 12 |  6 | 115 | 100 | 115  | 550 | 850 |   E   |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |  132  | 15 |  8 | 110 | 110 | 120  | 525 | 900 |   E   |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|  138  | 12 | 12 | 110 | 110 | 125  | 470 | 850 |   E   |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |  133  | 15 | 13 | 105 | 110 | 135  | 560 | 875 |   E   |
  +------------+-------+----+----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-------+

  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |            |         |          |        |      |
  |            |  Lung   |One-fourth|Product.|Total.|
  |            |Capacity.|Mile Run. |        |      |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+
  |Nov. 13, ’03|   485   |   1.45   |  1870  | 2560 |
  |Nov. 23, ’03|   465   |   1.17   |  2422  | 3007 |
  |Dec. 1, ’03 |   480   |   1.14   |  3126  | 4581 |
  |Dec. 15, ’03|   510   |   1.12   |  2843  | 4023 |
  |Dec. 29, ’03|   480   |   1.14   |  3204  | 4424 |
  |Jan. 12, ’04|   485   |   1.14   |  3415  | 4691 |
  |Jan. 26, ’04|   480   |   1.15   |  2345  | 4022 |
  |Feb. 9, ’04 |   500   |   1.15   |  2615  | 4075 |
  |Feb. 23, ’04|   505   |   1.15   |  2425  | 4155 |
  |Mar. 8, ’04 |   510   |   1.17   |  3047  | 4812 |
  |Mar. 22, ’04|   510   |   1.14   |  3320  | 4989 |
  |Apr. 2, ’04 |   515   |   1.15   |  3745  | 5530 |
  +------------+---------+----------+--------+------+

       *       *       *       *       *

The main things in Dr. Anderson’s report especially to be emphasized are
(1) the gain in self-reliance and courage of the men under training,
indicative as they are of the better physical condition of their bodies,
and (2) the marked increase in their strength as indicated by the steady
improvement in the strength or dynamometer tests. Obviously, the daily
training to which the men were subjected in the Gymnasium is not to be
overlooked as one factor in bringing about the gain in accuracy and
skill, and indeed this factor must count for something in explaining
the general gain in bodily strength, but increased skill alone will not
account for the great gain in muscular power.

The results of these systematic tests make it very evident that the men
were not being weakened by the lowered intake of proteid food. On the
contrary, their ability to do muscular work was greatly increased; a fact
which cannot well be connected with anything other than the physiological
economy which was being practised. There must be enough food to make good
the daily waste of tissue, enough food to furnish the energy of muscular
contraction, but any surplus over and above what is necessary to supply
these needs is not only a waste, but may prove an incubus, retarding the
smooth working of the machinery and detracting from the power of the
muscular mechanism to do its best work.

The figures showing the total strength of the men in October, 1903, on
their ordinary diet, and on the second day of April, 1904, when the
experiment was nearing completion are certainly very impressive.


TOTAL STRENGTH

                     October      April
  Henderson           2970        4598
  Oakman              3445        5055
  Morris              2543        4869
  Zooman              3070        5457
  Coffman             2835        6269
  Steltz              2838        4581
  Loewenthal          2463        5277
  Sliney              3245        5307
  Fritz               2504        5178
  Cohn                2210        4002
  Broyles             2560        5530

Here we see gains in strength of 100 per cent in some cases, while
Coffman shows an improvement so marked as to be almost marvellous. While
there can be no question that a certain amount of this gain is to be
attributed to the practice incidental to these months of work in the
Gymnasium, it is equally clear that a large part of the gain is due
to the improved physical condition of the men’s bodies, for which the
change in diet must be considered as responsible. In any event, the
change from the ordinary diet to a diet comparatively poor in proteid has
not resulted in any physical deterioration. On the contrary, there is
every indication of a marked improvement in physical condition. In this
connection the following note from Dr. DeWitt, commanding the detachment,
is of interest:

                                332 TEMPLE STREET, NEW HAVEN, CONN.,
                                March 30, 1904.

    Professor RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN, _Director Sheffield Scientific
    School_, NEW HAVEN, CONN.

    SIR,—In compliance with your verbal request I have the honor to
    inform you that at this date the men of this detachment are all
    in good physical condition.

                           Very respectfully,

       (Signed) WALLACE DEWITT,
       _1st Lieut. and Asst. Surgeon U. S. Army, Commdg. Det. H. C._

Finally, attention may be called to the photographs of the men, taken
just prior to the close of the experiment, from which may be gained some
idea of their physical condition so far as it can be judged by external
appearance. Certainly, there is no indication in these photographs
of any lack of bodily vigor. On the contrary, there is good muscular
development, without any undue amount of fat, and indeed every indication
of a good bodily condition, coupled with that appearance of quickness
and alertness that belongs to the well-developed man, in a state of
physiological balance. The photographs scattered through this section of
the book, showing the soldiers at work in the gymnasium, likewise give
some idea of the lighter forms of exercise they followed each day in the
training of bodily movements.

       *       *       *       *       *

What now is to be said regarding the nervous condition of the men; _i.
e._, their ability to respond to stimulation or, in other words, their
mental quickness or reaction time? To study this question, the soldiers
were sent with regularity to the Yale Psychological Laboratory, where
their reaction time was studied with great care. The results of this
investigation are contained in the following report made by Dr. Charles
H. Judd, in charge of the Yale Psychological Laboratory.


REPORT ON REACTION TIME.

    In order to test the quickness of the members of the Hospital
    Corps Detachment, and to determine whether the changes in
    diet affected in any way their ability to respond promptly to
    sensory stimulation, each man was carried through a series of
    reaction experiments at the Yale Psychological Laboratory.
    The method of the experiments was that regularly employed in
    simple reaction time experiments. The person whose reaction
    time is to be measured is seated in a comfortable position
    with his finger pressing on an electric key. He is told that
    he is to lift his finger from the key as quickly as possible
    when he hears a given sound-signal. The sounder which produces
    this signal and the electric key are placed in a circuit with
    a standard time-measuring apparatus—the Hipp Chronoscope. This
    chronoscope is arranged so that it begins to record the instant
    the sound is given and stops the instant the reactor lifts his
    finger. The dial of the chronoscope shows in thousandths of a
    second (hereafter designated by the technical term _sigmas_)
    the time that elapses between the sound to which the reactor is
    to respond and the movement of response. The chronoscope was
    tested at frequent intervals by means of a standard pendulum
    and errors in the record are well under two sigmas.

    The time which is measured by this method is occupied chiefly
    by nervous processes. The following factors may be specified:
    First, the auditory organ is aroused by the sound; second,
    the afferent nerve transmits the stimulation to the central
    nervous system; third, the central nervous system carries
    the energy to the motor nerves; fourth, the efferent motor
    nerves transmit the stimulus to the muscles; and finally, some
    time is required by the muscle for its contraction. It will
    be seen, accordingly, that the chief factors of a reaction
    are nervous processes, and since the external conditions
    of successive reactions are in all respects uniform, any
    variations in the time of a given person’s reactions may be
    regarded as indicating variations in the nervous condition of
    the reactor. In view of the instability of nervous conditions,
    it is necessary to eliminate any slight or merely temporary
    fluctuations by taking each time a given reactor is tested a
    series of reactions. For this reason, a series of ten reactions
    was taken with each of the men every two weeks during November,
    December, and January. After an interval of two months, namely,
    on March 30, 31, and April 1, two final series were made with
    each man.

    The results are presented in tables 1 to 5. The dates in the
    first column indicate the day on which each individual set
    of ten reactions was taken. The second column presents the
    averages of each ten reactions in sigmas. The third column
    gives the mean variations of the various single reaction times
    from the average. The fourth column gives the variations of the
    day’s average, recorded in column 2, from the general average
    of that individual for all his experiments. These general
    averages are presented in table 6. At the bottom of each
    complete column of averages will be found the group average.
    This quantity is obtained by averaging the results from all the
    members of the squad for periods of, approximately, two weeks.

    The mean variations in the third column make it clear that the
    subjects did not settle down into what could be regarded as
    trained subjects. Trained subjects are expected to give mean
    variations which are consistently within the limits of 10 per
    cent of the average. While there are, of course, instances in
    which the mean variation falls within this limit, there is no
    consistent exhibition of the regularity indicative of thorough
    practice. This fact is further confirmed by a comparison of
    the results of March 30, 31, and April 1 with those of the
    earlier months. At the end of March, all effects of practice
    in November, December, and January, except the most general,
    may be regarded as having disappeared; and yet the averages
    and variations for the March and April dates resemble closely
    those of the month immediately preceding and also those of
    November. The effects of practice may, accordingly, be regarded
    as insignificant.

    This lack of special training accounts for the large
    variations which appear in some cases. As is usual in reaction
    experiments, the signal to which the reactors were to respond
    was in each case preceded by about two seconds by a bell signal
    to arouse attention. Conditions were thus rendered as nearly
    uniform as possible, but the variations indicate in three or
    four cases exceptional lapses of attention. Such exceptional
    cases can be eliminated without prejudicing the final validity
    of the results by substituting the median for the averages. In
    table 7, the medians are grouped together and show even more
    than the tables of average the absence of any general variation
    during the period of the tests.

    The obvious conclusion from these tests is that the quickness
    of the members of the squad underwent no general change during
    the whole period covered by the test. Individual members showed
    variations from time to time, but these variations are clearly
    accidental in character, for they show no regular tendencies
    and are in no way related to the changes in the character and
    amount of the diet.

                                           (Signed) CHARLES H. JUDD.

    April 12, 1904.

The following tables give all the data upon which the foregoing
conclusions are based, being furnished by Dr. Judd and Mr. Warren M.
Steele, Assistant in Psychology, by whom the observations were made. Dr.
Cloyd N. McAllister, Instructor in Psychology, was also associated in the
making of these observations.


TABLE 1.—OCTOBER, 1903.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman         | 17 | 207.4 |34.1|  8.7 ||    |       |    |      |
  |II. Henderson      | 17 | 179.9 |31.5| 21.2 ||    |       |    |      |
  |III. Loewenthal    | 17 | 216.9 |43.5|  7.8 ||    |       |    |      |
  |IV. Morris         | 17 | 227.7 |19.8|  3.7 ||    |       |    |      |
  |V. Oakman          | 17 | 222.7 |65.4|  4.8 || 27 | 223.5 |28.8|  5.6 |
  |VI. Sliney         | 22 | 262.4 |33.1| 49.9 || 29 | 204.5 |46.2|  8.0 |
  |VII. Steltz        | 17 | 167.7 |16.3| 20.4 || 27 | 195.0 |21.1|  6.9 |
  |VIII. Zooman       | 17 | 264.9 |32.1| 50.0 ||    |       |    |      |
  |IX. Fritz          |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  |X. Broyles         |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  |XI. Cohn           |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group average (8 only)  | 218.7 |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 2.—NOVEMBER, 1903.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman         |  6 | 303.7 |37.9| 87.6 || 20 | 215.9 |22.8|  0.5 |
  |II. Henderson      |  5 | 248.5 |72.9| 47.4 || 19 | 198.2 |22.0|  2.9 |
  |III. Loewenthal    | 13 | 190.1 |23.7| 34.6 || 30 | 229.7 |37.4|  5.0 |
  |IV. Morris         |    |       |    |      || 25 | 248.6 |45.0| 17.2 |
  |V. Oakman          | 10 | 185.9 |13.9| 32.0 || 24 | 212.1 |21.9|  5.8 |
  |VI. Sliney         | 12 | 200.1 |25.3| 11.0 || 26 | 209.2 |24.6|  3.3 |
  |VII. Steltz        | 10 | 203.2 |45.7| 15.1 || 24 | 163.8 |31.4| 24.3 |
  |VIII. Zooman       |  5 | 192.0 |29.2| 22.9 || 19 | 183.8 |23.4| 31.1 |
  |IX. Fritz          |  2 | 240.1 |17.3| 19.5 || 17 | 204.8 |18.2| 15.8 |
  |X. Broyles         |    |       |    |      || 17 | 184.7 |23.0|  3.2 |
  |XI. Cohn           |    |       |    |      || 23 | 279.1 |50.7| 70.3 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group average      |    |       |    |      ||    | 211.8 |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman         |    |       |    |      |
  |II. Henderson      |    |       |    |      |
  |III. Loewenthal    |    |       |    |      |
  |IV. Morris         |    |       |    |      |
  |V. Oakman          |    |       |    |      |
  |VI. Sliney         |    |       |    |      |
  |VII. Steltz        |    |       |    |      |
  |VIII. Zooman       |    |       |    |      |
  |IX. Fritz          | 30 | 223.8 |52.3|  3.2 |
  |X. Broyles         |    |       |    |      |
  |XI. Cohn           |    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |Group average      |    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 3.—DECEMBER, 1903.

  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                  |    |       |     | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.            |Date| Avg.  |M.V. | from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                  |    |       |     | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman        |  4 | 230.1 | 22.5| 14.0 || 18 | 184.7 |21.4| 31.4 |
  |II. Henderson     |    |       |     |      || 31 | 187.0 |10.0| 14.1 |
  |III. Loewenthal   | 11 | 224.6 | 33.0|  0.1 || 26 | 217.9 |10.5|  6.8 |
  |IV. Morris        |  9 | 237.7 | 16.4|  6.3 || 23 | 276.6 |80.8| 45.2 |
  |V. Oakman         |  8 | 233.5 | 19.5| 15.6 || 22 | 220.5 |17.5|  2.6 |
  |VI. Sliney        | 10 | 218.3 | 25.4|  5.8 || 24 | 197.1 |24.1| 15.4 |
  |VII. Steltz       |  8 | 178.3 | 15.9|  9.8 || 22 | 201.7 |20.3| 13.6 |
  |VIII. Zooman      |  3 | 292.7 | 42.4| 77.8 || 17 | 248.1 |71.1| 33.2 |
  |IX. Fritz         | 14 | 187.4 | 16.1| 33.2 || 28 | 200.7 |22.4| 19.9 |
  |X. Broyles        |  1 | 180.3 | 13.8|  7.6 || 15 | 188.0 |25.8|  0.1 |
  |XI. Cohn          |  7 | 243.3 |111.1| 34.5 || 21 | 177.0 |16.2| 31.8 |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages    |    | 222.6 |     |      ||    | 209.0 |    |      |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |                  |    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.            |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                  |    |       |    | G.A. |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman        |    |       |    |      |
  |II. Henderson     |    |       |    |      |
  |III. Loewenthal   |    |       |    |      |
  |IV. Morris        |    |       |    |      |
  |V. Oakman         |    |       |    |      |
  |VI. Sliney        |    |       |    |      |
  |VII. Steltz       |    |       |    |      |
  |VIII. Zooman      | 31 | 206.9 |35.0|  8.0 |
  |IX. Fritz         |    |       |    |      |
  |X. Broyles        |    |       |    |      |
  |XI. Cohn          |    |       |    |      |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages    |    |       |    |      |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 4.—JANUARY AND FEBRUARY, 1904.

  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                  |    |       |     | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.            |Date| Avg.  |M.V. | from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                  |    |       |     | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman        |  1 | 188.5 | 22.4| 27.6 || 15 | 246.4 |60.5| 30.3 |
  |                  |    |       |     |      ||    |       |    |      |
  |II. Henderson     |  7 | 206.8 | 14.2|  5.7 || 21 | 180.9 | 8.9| 20.2 |
  |III. Loewenthal   |  8 | 208.0 | 13.2| 16.7 || 22 | 201.8 |16.5| 12.9 |
  |IV. Morris        |  6 | 260.4 | 39.9| 29.0 || 20 | 222.3 |36.0|  9.1 |
  |V. Oakman         |  5 | 235.7 | 33.4| 17.8 || 19 | 215.5 |17.8|  2.4 |
  |VI. Sliney        | 14 | 186.6 | 20.0| 25.9 || 28 | 167.9 |11.3| 44.6 |
  |VII. Steltz       |  5 | 211.5 |  9.1| 23.4 || 19 | 200.4 |29.2| 12.3 |
  |VIII. Zooman      |  7 | 237.6 |106.2| 22.7 || 21 | 197.0 |13.0| 17.9 |
  |IX. Fritz         | 11 | 240.5 | 73.9| 19.9 || 25 | 183.9 |15.9| 36.7 |
  |X. Broyles        | 12 | 211.6 | 33.3| 23.7 || 26 | 203.6 |21.7| 15.7 |
  |XI. Cohn          |  4 | 187.1 | 34.3| 21.7 || 18 | 195.8 |23.7| 13.0 |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages    |    | 215.8 |     |      ||    | 202.3 |    |      |
  +------------------+----+-------+-----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |                  |    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.            |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                  |    |       |    | G.A. |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman        | 29 | 198.2 |14.2| 17.9 |
  |                  |Feb.|       |    |      |
  |II. Henderson     |  4 | 172.1 |15.0| 29.0 |
  |III. Loewenthal   |    |       |    |      |
  |IV. Morris        |  3 | 244.0 |15.6| 12.6 |
  |V. Oakman         |  2 | 197.0 |19.8| 20.9 |
  |VI. Sliney        |    |       |    |      |
  |VII. Steltz       |  2 | 169.9 |13.9| 18.2 |
  |VIII. Zooman      |  4 | 164.5 | 6.9| 50.4 |
  |IX. Fritz         |    |       |    |      |
  |X. Broyles        |    |       |    |      |
  |XI. Cohn          |  1 | 195.4 |47.2| 13.4 |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages    |    |       |    |      |
  +------------------+----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 5.—MARCH AND APRIL, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Coffman         | 30 | 191.9 |13.7| 24.2 ||  1 | 194.4 |25.9| 21.7 |
  |II. Henderson      | 31 | 195.2 |15.2|  5.9 ||  1 | 241.3 |27.2| 40.2 |
  |III. Loewenthal    | 31 | 231.9 |45.9|  7.2 ||  1 | 291.0 |49.6| 66.3 |
  |IV. Morris         | 31 | 174.4 |11.4| 57.0 ||  1 | 190.7 |18.6| 40.7 |
  |V. Oakman          | 31 | 223.2 |47.2|  5.3 ||  1 | 226.3 |52.0|  8.4 |
  |VI. Sliney         | 30 | 239.3 |47.1| 16.8 || 31 | 239.6 |11.8| 17.1 |
  |VII. Steltz        | 30 | 193.5 |34.0|  5.4 ||  1 | 193.3 |29.3|  5.2 |
  |VIII. Zooman       | 30 | 196.6 |11.6| 18.3 ||  1 | 179.8 |15.6| 35.1 |
  |IX. Fritz          | 31 | 244.5 |48.9| 23.9 ||  1 | 259.7 |39.3| 39.1 |
  |X. Broyles         | 30 | 180.0 |19.4|  0.1 ||  1 | 182.6 |23.6|  5.3 |
  |XI. Cohn           | 31 | 210.8 |21.7|  2.0 ||  1 | 181.7 |12.0| 27.1 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages     |    | 207.4 |    |      ||    | 216.4 |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 6.

  +----------------------+------------------+---------------+
  |                      | Individual       | Av. Var. from |
  |                      | General Average. | Gen. Av.      |
  +----------------------+------------------+---------------+
  |I. Coffman            |      216.1       |      26.4     |
  |II. Henderson         |      201.1       |      20.7     |
  |III. Loewenthal       |      224.7       |      17.5     |
  |IV. Morris            |      231.4       |      24.5     |
  |V. Oakman             |      217.9       |      11.0     |
  |VI. Sliney            |      212.5       |      19.7     |
  |VII. Steltz           |      188.1       |      14.0     |
  |VIII. Zooman          |      214.9       |      33.4     |
  |IX. Fritz             |      220.6       |      23.5     |
  |X. Broyles            |      187.9       |       8.8     |
  |XI. Cohn              |      208.8       |      26.7     |
  +----------------------+------------------+---------------+
  |General group average |      211.6       |               |
  +----------------------+------------------+---------------+


TABLE 7.

  +--------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
  |        |       I.        |      II.        |      III.       |
  |        |    Coffman.     |   Henderson.    |   Loewenthal.   |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Month. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Oct.   |  17   |  207.4  |  17   |  181.5  |  17   |  196.0  |
  | Nov.   |   6   |  305.5  |   5   |  214.0  |  13   |  181.0  |
  | Nov.   |  20   |  216.0  |  19   |  198.0  |  30   |  217.0  |
  | Dec.   |   4   |  224.5  |       |         |  11   |  213.5  |
  | Dec.   |  18   |  176.0  |  31   |  185.5  |  26   |  219.5  |
  | Jan.   |   1   |  178.5  |   7   |  204.5  |   8   |  212.0  |
  | Jan.   |  15   |  204.4  |  21   |  181.5  |  22   |  209.0  |
  | Jan.   |  29   |  201.5  |       |         |       |         |
  | Feb.   |       |         |   4   |  172.5  |       |         |
  | Mar.   |  30   |  192.0  |       |         |       |         |
  | Mar.   |  31   |         |  31   |  201.0  |  31   |  206.5  |
  | Apr.   |   1   |  196.0  |   1   |  237.0  |   1   |  296.0  |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+

  +--------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
  |        |      IV.        |       V.        |      VI.        |
  |        |    Morris.      |     Oakman.     |    Sliney.      |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Month. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Oct.   |  17   |  238.0  |  17   |  171.0  |  22   |  272.0  |
  | Nov.   |       |         |  10   |  180.5  |  12   |  191.0  |
  | Nov.   |  25   |  224.5  |  24   |  199.0  |  26   |  201.5  |
  | Dec.   |   9   |  230.0  |   8   |  234.0  |  10   |  210.0  |
  | Dec.   |  23   |  233.5  |  22   |  227.0  |  24   |  188.0  |
  | Jan.   |   6   |  251.0  |   5   |  239.5  |  14   |  180.5  |
  | Jan.   |  20   |  222.5  |  19   |  209.5  |  28   |  171.0  |
  | Jan.   |       |         |       |         |       |         |
  | Feb.   |   3   |  243.0  |   2   |  193.0  |       |         |
  | Mar.   |       |         |       |         |  30   |  219.5  |
  | Mar.   |  31   |  173.0  |  31   |  215.5  |  31   |  237.0  |
  | Apr.   |   1   |  183.0  |   1   |  204.5  |       |         |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+

  +--------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
  |        |      VII.       |     VIII.       |      IX.        |
  |        |     Steltz.     |    Zooman.      |     Fritz.      |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Month. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Oct.   |  17   |  168.0  |  17   |  260.0  |       |         |
  | Nov.   |  10   |  173.5  |   5   |  185.0  |  17   |  199.0  |
  | Nov.   |  24   |  174.5  |  19   |  184.0  |  30   |  214.0  |
  | Dec.   |   8   |  178.0  |   3   |  284.5  |  14   |  179.5  |
  | Dec.   |  22   |  199.5  |  17   |  229.5  |  28   |  188.0  |
  | Jan.   |   5   |  210.0  |   7   |  185.0  |  11   |  209.0  |
  | Jan.   |  19   |  193.0  |  21   |  199.5  |  25   |  184.0  |
  | Jan.   |       |         |       |         |       |         |
  | Feb.   |   2   |  168.0  |   4   |  164.5  |       |         |
  | Mar.   |  30   |  189.5  |  30   |  197.0  |       |         |
  | Mar.   |       |         |       |         |  31   |  211.0  |
  | Apr.   |   1   |  185.0  |   1   |  174.0  |   1   |  245.5  |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+-------+---------+

  +--------+-----------------+-----------------+
  |        |       X.        |      XI.        |
  |        |    Broyles.     |     Cohn.       |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Month. | Date. | Median. | Date. | Median. |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+
  | Oct.   |       |         |       |         |
  | Nov.   |  17   |  152.0  |       |         |
  | Nov.   |       |         |  23   |  251.5  |
  | Dec.   |   1   |  178.0  |   7   |  197.0  |
  | Dec.   |  15   |  187.5  |  21   |  179.0  |
  | Jan.   |  12   |  203.5  |   4   |  180.5  |
  | Jan.   |  26   |  204.0  |  18   |  187.0  |
  | Jan.   |       |         |       |         |
  | Feb.   |       |         |   1   |  190.5  |
  | Mar.   |  30   |  182.0  |       |         |
  | Mar.   |       |         |  31   |  205.5  |
  | Apr.   |   1   |  185.5  |   1   |  184.0  |
  +--------+-------+---------+-------+---------+


CHARACTER OF THE BLOOD.

One question that naturally arises in considering the possible effects
of a diminished proteid intake upon bodily health is whether a continued
diminution of proteid food will have any influence upon the character
and composition of the blood. It might be claimed, for example, that a
lowering of the quantity of proteid food below the ordinarily accepted
standards will eventually result in a deterioration in the character of
the blood. Obviously, if such should prove to be the case, it would at
once emphasize the necessity for higher standards of proteid feeding.
Further, there might result marked changes in the hæmoglobin-content of
the blood in connection with a lowered proteid metabolism long continued.
With these thoughts in mind, a careful study of the blood of the soldiers
has been made from time to time, with special reference to determining
the number of erythrocytes and leucocytes in the fluid, attention also
being paid to the percentage of hæmoglobin.

Four distinct observations were made, as a rule, upon each man, namely,
in the months of October, December, January, and March. The results are
tabulated in the accompanying tables. Examination of these results shows
that, as a rule, the number of erythrocytes, or red blood corpuscles,
was somewhat increased during this period of lowered proteid feeding. We
are not disposed, however, to lay very much stress upon this apparent
increase, because it is not sufficiently marked to carry much weight,
especially in view of the difficulties attending the obtaining of great
accuracy in blood counts in general. Regarding the leucocytes, the
figures are less definite, but may be fairly interpreted as indicating
practically no appreciable change in the number of white corpuscles.
Similarly, the hæmoglobin-content shows no distinct alteration. Hence,
the conclusion is that the physiological economy practised by the
soldiers during their six months’ stay in New Haven, and especially the
marked diminution in the amount of proteid food consumed, did not result
in any deterioration of the blood, so far as it can be measured by the
number of contained erythrocytes and leucocytes, and by the content of
hæmoglobin.

  +-------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
  |    Date.    | Erythrocytes| Leucocytes| Hæmoglobin|
  |             |   per cmm.  | per cmm.  | per cent. |
  +-------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+
  |   OAKMAN.   |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 23, 1903|  5,480,000  |   7,300   |    82     |
  |Dec. 1, 1903 |  6,000,000  |   9,500   |    82     |
  |Jan. 26, 1904|  4,670,000  |  12,500   |    80-81  |
  |Mar. 22, 1904|  6,560,000  |   6,000   |    84-85  |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   SLINEY.   |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 22, 1903|  5,450,000  |  11,500   |    85     |
  |Nov. 20, 1903|  6,070,000  |   8,800   |    84     |
  |Jan. 19, 1904|  4,058,000  |  11,100   |    76     |
  |Mar. 15, 1904|  6,208,000  |   8,400   |    82     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   BATES.    |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 13, 1903|  5,088,000  |  12,000   |    77     |
  |Nov. 10, 1903|  7,344,000  |  13,600   |    96     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   COFFMAN.  |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 13, 1903|  6,024,000  |   9,300   |    84     |
  |Nov. 10, 1903|  7,544,000  |   8,600   |    94     |
  |Feb. 2, 1904 |  3,160,000  |  11,300   |    78     |
  |Mar. 18, 1904|  5,568,000  |  10,000   |    74     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |    COHN.    |             |           |           |
  |Nov. 23, 1903|  5,952,000  |  17,200   |    94     |
  |Feb. 2, 1904 |  6,000,000  |  13,600   |    87-88  |
  |Mar. 18, 1904|  7,000,000  |   9,000   |    85-86  |
  |             |             |           |           |
  | LOEWENTHAL. |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 16, 1903|  6,392,000  |   5,900   |    84     |
  |Nov. 20, 1903|  6,780,000  |   5,000   |    85     |
  |Jan. 25, 1904|  6,500,000  |  11,200   |    85     |
  |Mar. 22, 1904|  7,000,000  |  10,200   |    86-87  |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   MORRIS.   |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 14, 1903|  6,728,000  |  11,300   |    84-85  |
  |Nov. 10, 1903|  6,620,000  |   8,100   |    90-91  |
  |Feb. 8, 1904 |  6,000,000  |   9,600   |    87-88  |
  |Mar. 15, 1904|  5,000,000  |  10,200   |    85     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   STELTZ.   |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 16, 1903|  6,792,000  |  12,400   |    85-86  |
  |Nov. 20, 1903|  5,500,000  |  13,800   |    88     |
  |Feb. 8, 1904 |  5,000,000  |  14,700   |    86-87  |
  |Mar. 15, 1904|  7,000,000  |  14,800   |    85     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   BROYLES.  |             |           |           |
  |Nov. 24, 1903|  5,310,000  |   9,200   |    89     |
  |Jan. 19, 1904|  5,200,000  |   6,100   |    80     |
  |Mar. 15, 1904|  5,600,000  |   8,800   |    85     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   ZOOMAN.   |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 22, 1903|  6,024,000  |   9,300   |    91     |
  |Nov. 24, 1903|  5,136,000  |   6,700   |    94     |
  |Feb. 8, 1904 |  7,760,000  |  16,000   |    87-88  |
  |Mar. 22, 1904|  4,800,000  |  13,600   |    88     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   DAVIS.    |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 13, 1903|  4,160,000  |   5,700   |    86-87  |
  |Nov. 10, 1903|  5,850,000  |   9,200   |    88     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |   FRITZ.    |             |           |           |
  |Nov. 2, 1903 |  4,776,000  |   9,800   |    87-88  |
  |Dec. 1, 1903 |  6,048,000  |   9,200   |    94     |
  |Jan. 19, 1904|  5,848,000  |  10,000   |    84     |
  |Mar. 15, 1904|  5,784,000  |   6,400   |    92     |
  |             |             |           |           |
  |  HENDERSON. |             |           |           |
  |Oct. 16, 1903|  7,192,000  |  16,000   |    87     |
  |Nov. 20, 1903|  5,760,000  |  10,200   |    84     |
  |Jan. 25, 1904|  6,800,000  |   8,000   |           |
  |Mar. 18, 1904|  8,144,000  |  15,000   |    79-80  |
  +-------------+-------------+-----------+-----------+


GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.

Careful consideration of the foregoing data, taken in their entirety,
must lead the unbiassed thinker to admit the possibilities of
physiological economy in nutrition. That there is no real need for a
daily diet containing 118 grams of proteid food seems clearly indicated.
The members of the soldier detachment lived without discomfort for a
period of five months on amounts of proteid food not more than one-half
that called for by the ordinary standard dietaries, and this without
increasing the amount of non-nitrogenous food. Body-weight, nitrogen
equilibrium, physical strength and vigor, ability to respond to sensory
stimulation, the composition and general condition of the blood, all
remained unimpaired under a daily diet involving the metabolism of only
7 to 8 grams of nitrogen per day and with a fuel value of less than 2800
calories per day.

[Illustration: _Soldiers exercising in the gymnasium._]

Further, the practice of such economy led to marked improvement in the
working of the neuro-muscular machinery, sufficiently noticeable to
attract the attention of the men themselves, apart from the records of
the dynamometer, etc. Indeed, it has been the universal feeling among all
the subjects of experiment that they were less conscious of fatigue than
formerly, or that they could do more work without the feeling of fatigue
that is usually so conspicuous after heavy work, or long-continued
muscular strain. We thus have for consideration an added factor, viz.,
the possible improvement of the physical condition of the body under a
lowered proteid intake. This question, however, we shall discuss more
fully later on. It is enough for the present to simply emphasize the
fact that with a greatly diminished proteid metabolism the body suffers
no harm, the muscular machinery is as well able to perform its work as
usual, and consequently there would seem to be no adequate reason why our
daily dietary should be cumbered with such quantities of proteid matter
as are generally considered necessary for health and strength.

There is one point of great importance in this connection that should not
be overlooked, viz., whether the power of resistance toward disease is
diminished in any way by a continued low proteid intake. This is surely a
proper question, and one that must be carefully considered. Fortunately
or unfortunately, we have no facts at our disposal. We have the belief,
however, engendered by the results so far obtained, that there is no
good ground for assuming the body to be any more susceptible to disease
under conditions of low proteid metabolism than when supplied with an
excess of proteid food. Indeed, it has been somewhat remarkable how free
from all troubles—even during a very trying winter—the subjects of this
experiment have been. We believe that economy in the use of proteid
food, curtailment of proteid metabolism to a degree commensurate with
the real needs of the body, will prove helpful to health, but we have no
convincing facts to present,—only the simple statement that all the men
have been well and remarkably free from colds and other minor ailments
all through the experiment.

It is a remarkable and suggestive fact that when a person has once
practised physiological economy in his diet sufficiently long for it
to have become in a measure a habit, he has no desire to return to a
fuller dietary rich in proteid matter. This, it seems to the writer, is
convincing proof that both body and mind are fully satisfied with the
smaller amounts of food, and argues in favor of the latter being quite
adequate for the physiological needs of the organism. In this connection,
the writer presents a few lines received during the summer from one of
the soldier detachment. Nine of these men, after completing their work at
New Haven early in April, 1904, were detailed for service at St. Louis,
and the letter which is quoted was written simply to ask concerning some
photographs that had been promised them. In the letter, however, occur
two or three sentences which are interesting and suggestive.

                               WORLD’S FAIR GROUNDS, ST. LOUIS, MO.,
                               July 8, 1904.

    Professor RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN:

    DEAR SIR,—On behalf of the men that were undergoing the “Food
    Test” conducted by you last winter, I write these few lines
    asking whether we are entitled to any of the photographs that
    were taken of us in the Yale Gymnasium the last two days we
    were there.... The men are all in first-class condition as
    regards their physical condition, and are all very thankful to
    you. We eat very little meat now as a rule, and would willingly
    go on another test. Enclosed you will find a list of the men
    as follows: Private 1st Class Jonah Broyles; Private 1st Class
    William E. Coffman; Private 1st Class James D. Henderson;
    Private 1st Class Maurice D. Loewenthal; Private 1st Class
    William Morris; Private 1st Class William F. Sliney; Private
    1st Class John J. B. Steltz; Private 1st Class Ben Zooman;
    Private 1st Class William Oakman.

    Trusting I may hear from you in the near future, I am,

                           Very respectfully,

                                         (Signed) JOHN J. B. STELTZ.

    _Medical Department Exhibit U. S. Army, World’s Fair Station._


DAILY DIETARY OF THE SOLDIER DETAIL FROM OCTOBER 2, 1903, TO APRIL 4,
1904.

For the first two weeks of their stay in New Haven, the soldiers were
given their ordinary army ration, which is rich in meat and consequently
had a high content of proteid or nitrogen. The detachment had their own
cook and helper, and their food was prepared for them as they had always
been accustomed to it. Further, they had at this time perfect freedom as
to the quantity of food to be eaten, the figures given in the earlier
days representing their own choice of quantity. Later, by the beginning
of the third week, the diet was modified somewhat by the introduction of
other articles in place of meat, especially at breakfast, so that the
total nitrogen intake was diminished in some degree, but the men were
still allowed freedom as to quantity. From November to the close of the
experiment in April, both the character and quantity of the food for each
meal were prescribed, but great care was exercised to see that the men
were fully satisfied. Changes were made gradually and no discomfort was
felt, or at least no complaint was made, although the men were frequently
questioned and encouraged to comment upon the dietary and to make
suggestions.

The dietary, however, speaks for itself, and a careful perusal of the
daily record, with reference both to the character of the food and the
quantities employed, will give clearer and more exact information as to
the changes introduced than any verbal description. The only statement
that need be made is that the heavier proteid foods were greatly reduced
in amount, and replaced in a measure by the lighter carbohydrate
foods. Finally, it may be said that while vegetable foods eventually
predominated, there was at no time a complete change to a vegetable diet.


_Friday, October 2, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beefsteak 222 grams, fried potatoes 234 grams, onions 34
grams, gravy 68 grams, bread 144 grams, coffee 679 grams, sugar 18 grams.

Dinner.—Beef 171 grams, boiled potatoes 350 grams, onions 55 grams, bread
234 grams, coffee 916 grams, sugar 27 grams.

Supper.—Corned beef 195 grams, potatoes 170 grams, onions 21 grams, bread
158 grams, coffee 450 grams, sugar 21 grams, fruit jelly 107 grams.


_Saturday, October 3, 1903._

Breakfast.—Bacon 162 grams, fried cake 215 grams, bread 72 grams, sugar
21 grams, coffee 550 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 250 grams, gravy 133 grams, bread 234 grams, sugar 21
grams, coffee 667.

Supper.—Frankfurters 171 grams, bread 128 grams, milk 71 grams, sugar 21
grams, coffee 450 grams.


_Sunday, October 4, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beefsteak 299 grams, onions 21 grams, gravy 175 grams, bread
222 grams, milk 83 grams, sugar 21 grams, coffee 491 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 221 grams, potatoes 517 grams, gravy 154 grams, bread
148 grams, pie 184 grams, sugar 18 grams, milk 46 grams, coffee 621 grams.

Supper.—Roast beef 96 grams, potatoes 260 grams, onions 32 grams, jam 92
grams, bread 32 grams, coffee 360 grams, milk 65 grams, sugar 18 grams.


_Monday, October 5, 1903._

Breakfast.—Bacon 185 grams, fried potatoes 277 grams, gravy 93 grams,
bread 140 grams, coffee 538 grams, sugar 18 grams, milk 65 grams.

Dinner.—Cabbage 304 grams, corned beef 200 grams, potatoes 309 grams,
bread 145 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 457 grams.

Supper.—Cabbage 130 grams, potatoes 248 grams, onions 27 grams, bacon 35
grams, bread 200 grams, butter 30 grams, milk 55 grams, coffee 500 grams,
sugar 20 grams, blackberry jam 135 grams.


_Tuesday, October 6, 1903._

Breakfast.—Bologna sausage 150 grams, bread 230 grams, butter 25 grams,
milk 55 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 334 grams.

Dinner.—Beans 130 grams, onions 27 grams, bacon 90 grams, bread 160
grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Supper.—Beans 70 grams, beef liver 160 grams, onions 100 grams, bread 132
grams, milk 56 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Wednesday, October 7, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beefsteak 290 grams, gravy 116 grams, bread 142 grams, milk 55
grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 240 grams, onions 20 grams, gravy 166 grams, bread 170
grams, milk 56 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 550 grams.

Supper.—Potatoes 280 grams, beef 110 grams, onions 32 grams, bread 185
grams, pie 60 grams, milk 55 grams, butter 35 grams, sugar 20 grams,
coffee 500 grams, blackberry jam 60 grams.


_Thursday, October 8, 1903._

Breakfast.—Meat 107 grams, eggs 120 grams, bread 117 grams, milk 55
grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Dinner.—Bacon 170 grams, cabbage 297 grams, potatoes 360 grams, bread 120
grams, milk 40 grams, sugar 12 grams, coffee 300 grams.

Supper.—Peaches 100 grams, bread 347 grams, butter 35 grams, milk 55
grams, sugar 52 grams, coffee 416 grams.


_Friday, October 9, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beef 120 grams, potatoes 220 grams, onions 50 grams, butter 35
grams, milk 55 grams, bread 175 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 203 grams, potatoes 143 grams, gravy 144 grams, bread
108 grams, sugar 18 grams, milk 55 grams, coffee 451 grams.

Supper.—Beef liver 138 grams, onions 93 grams, bacon 86 grams, bread 154
grams, butter 33 grams, sugar 19 grams, milk 55 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Saturday, October 10, 1903._

Breakfast.—Eggs 86 grams, bacon 89 grams, potatoes 187 grams, bread 128
grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Dinner.—Fish 233 grams, bacon 65 grams, onions 49 grams, potatoes 140
grams, bread 226 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 19 grams, coffee 465 grams.

Supper.—Hamburg steak 224 grams, onions 23 grams, butter 28 grams, bread
147 grams, pie 128 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500
grams.


_Sunday, October 11, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beefsteak 243 grams, bread 105 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18
grams, coffee 335 grams.

Dinner.—Roast pork 208 grams, turnips 159 grams, potatoes 201 grams,
gravy 133 grams, apple pie 168 grams, bread 89 grams, milk 55 grams,
sugar 18 grams, coffee 340 grams.

Supper.—Stewed peaches 235 grams, bread 291 grams, milk 55 grams, butter
28 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 475 grams.


_Monday, October 12, 1903._

Breakfast.—Potatoes 275 grams, beef 131 grams, onions 37 grams, bread 135
grams, milk 50 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 350 grams.

Dinner.—Beans 350 grams, bacon 70 grams, onions 39 grams, pickles 39
grams, bread 147 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Supper.—Frankfurters 149 grams, butter 28 grams, bread 149 grams,
blackberry jam 63 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Tuesday, October 13, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beef liver 149 grams, bacon 68 grams, bread 100 grams, milk 55
grams, sugar 19 grams, coffee 375 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 187 grams, potatoes 131 grams, gravy 167 grams,
tomatoes 151 grams, bread 112 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams,
coffee 410 grams.

Supper.—Roast beef 140 grams, apple sauce 350 grams, bread 144 grams,
butter 33 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Wednesday, October 14, 1903._

Breakfast.—Bacon 93 grams, apple sauce 299 grams, syrup 58 grams, bread
271 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 35 grams, coffee 417 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak 186 grams, potatoes 336 grams, gravy 100 grams,
onions 37 grams, bread 187 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee
350 grams.

Supper.—Beef 224 grams, potatoes 242 grams, onions 28 grams, prunes 147
grams, bread 135 grams, butter 28 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 44 grams,
coffee 500 grams.


_Thursday, October 15, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beef liver 159 grams, bacon 72 grams, bread 138 grams, milk 55
grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Dinner.—Cabbage 401 grams, bacon 156 grams, potatoes 201 grams, bread 121
grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 19 grams, coffee 480 grams.

Supper.—Bologna sausage 154 grams, rice 140 grams, eggs 13 grams, bread
133 grams, butter 28 grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 63 grams, coffee 500
grams.


_Friday, October 16, 1903._

Breakfast.—Beefsteak 285 grams, bread 140 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 20
grams, coffee 545 grams.

Dinner.—Fish 226 grams, potatoes 287 grams, tomatoes 135 grams, bread 128
grams, milk 55 grams, sugar 18 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Supper.—Pork sausage 244 grams, apple sauce 204 grams, bread 189 grams,
butter 31 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 545 grams.


_Saturday, October 17, 1903._

Breakfast.—Ham 183 grams, potatoes 298 grams, bread 115 grams, sugar 20
grams, milk 61 grams, coffee 545 grams.

Dinner.—Beef 204 grams, potatoes 290 grams, onions 13 grams, bread 145
grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 375 grams.

Supper.—Roast beef 142 grams, apple sauce 112 grams, butter 35 grams,
bread 183 grams, pie 104 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 66 grams, coffee 545
grams.


_Sunday, October 18, 1903._

Breakfast.—Hamburg steak 234 grams, onions 31 grams, bread 155 grams,
milk 61 grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 455 grams.

Dinner.—Chicken 326 grams, dressing 142 grams, potatoes 290 grams,
tomatoes 453 grams, bread 122 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 20 grams,
coffee 545 grams.

Supper.—Apple sauce 244 grams, syrup 100 grams, bread 518 grams, milk 61
grams, sugar 20 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Monday, October 19, 1903._

Breakfast.—Eggs 79 grams, bacon 43 grams, bread 127 grams, milk 61 grams,
sugar 20 grams, coffee 514 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 214 grams, sweet potatoes 374 grams, tomatoes 305
grams, onions 23 grams, bread 140 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 545 grams.

Supper.—Roast beef 173 grams, apple sauce 214 grams, bread 163 grams,
butter 30 grams, milk 61 grams, sugar 25 grams, coffee 509 grams.


_Tuesday, October 20, 1903._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 316 grams, bread 95 grams, butter 19 grams, bacon 95
grams, coffee 600 grams, milk 245 grams, sugar 75 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 187 grams, boiled potatoes 366 grams, tomatoes 156
grams, bread 79 grams, coffee 600 grams, milk 101 grams, sugar 36 grams.

Supper.—Cold roast beef 176 grams, apple sauce 277 grams, bread 159
grams, butter 36 grams, coffee 370 grams, sugar 39 grams, milk 63 grams.


_Wednesday, October 21, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried oatmeal 142 grams, syrup 36 grams, bacon 62 grams,
biscuits 155 grams, butter 35 grams, coffee 436 grams, milk 136 grams,
sugar 46 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak 275 grams, potatoes 399 grams, onions 63 grams,
gravy 145 grams, bread 84 grams, coffee 500 grams, milk 140 grams, sugar
46 grams.

Supper.—Baked beans 336 grams, bread 148 grams, butter 43 grams, stewed
prunes 193 grams, coffee 518 grams, milk 173 grams, sugar 48 grams.


_Thursday, October 22, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 178 grams, French fried potatoes 168 grams,
toasted bread 109 grams, butter 36 grams, coffee 473 grams, milk 163
grams, sugar 53 grams.

Dinner.—Corned beef 149 grams, boiled cabbage 191 grams, potatoes 189
grams, bread 87 grams, coffee 518 grams, sugar 51 grams, milk 76 grams.

Supper.—Bologna sausage 104 grams, Saratoga chips 69 grams, fried hominy
214 grams, syrup 91 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 36 grams, coffee 500
grams, sugar 40 grams, milk 91 grams.


_Friday, October 23, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice with sugar and milk 221 grams, biscuits 158 grams,
butter 38 grams, coffee 536 grams, milk 182 grams, sugar 71 grams.

Dinner.—Fish 288 grams, potatoes 265 grams, tomatoes 193 grams, bread 107
grams, coffee 545 grams, sugar 71 grams, milk 173 grams.

Supper.—Oyster stew with crackers 361 grams, apple sauce 102 grams, bread
43 grams, butter 35 grams, coffee 409 grams, sugar 46 grams, milk 309
grams.


_Saturday, October 24, 1903._

Breakfast.—Egg omelette 71 grams, with wheat flour 23 grams, bread 97
grams, butter 27 grams, coffee 545 grams, sugar 63 grams, milk 159 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak made with bread 163 grams, fat 10 grams, and onions
for flavor 90 grams, tomatoes 283 grams, bread 244 grams, butter 48
grams, coffee 454 grams, milk 182 grams, sugar 48 grams.

Supper.—Bacon 79 grams, potato chips 170 grams, stewed prunes 61 grams,
biscuits 173 grams, butter 42 grams, coffee 545 grams, milk 182 grams,
sugar 69 grams.


_Sunday, October 25, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 125 grams, fried rice 242 grams, syrup 64 grams,
biscuits 127 grams, butter 33 grams, coffee 363 grams, milk 154 grams,
sugar 31 grams.

Dinner.—Roast pork 252 grams, apple sauce 145 grams, potatoes 234 grams,
bread 66 grams, tapioca pudding 265 grams, coffee 363 grams, sugar 38
grams, milk 164 grams.

Supper.—Toasted bread 75 grams, blackberry jam 81 grams, bread 75 grams,
butter 46 grams, coffee 363 grams, milk 160 grams, sugar 46 grams.


_Monday, October 26, 1903._

Breakfast.—Griddle cakes 305 grams, syrup 67 grams, bread 35 grams,
coffee 454 grams, milk 145 grams, butter 23 grams, sugar 41 grams.

Dinner.—Beef stew with potatoes, onions, and thickened with corn starch
560 grams, bread 94 grams, milk 154 grams, coffee 454 grams, sugar 41
grams.

Supper.—Macaroni with cheese 226 grams, stewed tomatoes 282 grams, bread
114 grams, butter 41 grams, stewed prunes 127 grams, coffee 445 grams,
milk 90 grams, sugar 20 grams.


_Tuesday, October 27, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice, milk, and sugar 311 grams, toasted bread 114
grams, butter 31 grams, coffee 545 grams, milk 190 grams, sugar 79 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls 369 grams, mashed potatoes 269 grams, pickles 43
grams, bread 72 grams, apple pie 117 grams, coffee 545 grams, milk 91
grams, sugar 25 grams.

Supper.—Apple-rice pudding 397 grams, biscuit 252 grams, butter 48 grams,
coffee 500 grams, milk 91 grams, sugar 25 grams.


_Wednesday, October 28, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 252 grams, fried hominy 168 grams, syrup 86 grams, bread
79 grams, coffee 445 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams.

Dinner.—Bean porridge with bread 415 grams, boiled onions 99 grams,
coffee 545 grams, milk 91 grams, sugar 25 grams, bread 63 grams, bread
pudding 282 grams.

Supper.—Apple fritters 371 grams, syrup 67 grams, biscuit 87 grams,
butter 36 grams, pickles 23 grams, coffee 454 grams, milk 91 grams, sugar
25 grams.


_Thursday, October 29, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried rice cakes 201 grams, syrup 54 grams, coffee 545 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak[37] with bread, fat, and onions 230 grams, boiled
potatoes 211 grams, stewed tomatoes 257 grams, bread 61 grams, coffee 363
grams.

Supper.—Apple sauce 277 grams, biscuits 293 grams, butter 56 grams, apple
pie 117 grams, tea 527 grams.


_Friday, October 30, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 364 grams, sugar 47 grams, milk 91 grams, coffee
455 grams.[38]

Dinner.—Fish 219 grams, French fried potatoes 158 grams, boiled onions 58
grams, bread pudding 333 grams, coffee 436 grams.

Supper.—Bacon 61 grams, Saratoga chips 119 grams, stewed prunes 206
grams, bread 155 grams, butter 53 grams, coffee 454 grams.


_Saturday, October 31, 1903._

Breakfast.—Steamed oatmeal (soft) 349 grams, sugar 76 grams, milk 182
grams, biscuits 109 grams, butter 53 grams, coffee 409 grams.

Dinner.—Macaroni flavored with cheese 345 grams, stewed tomatoes 149
grams, bread 58 grams, apple pie 112 grams, coffee 416 grams.

Supper.—Boiled cabbage 273 grams, bologna sausage 159 grams, bread 79
grams, rice pudding 224 grams, coffee 500 grams.


_Sunday, November 1, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 240 grams, rice croquettes 271 grams, syrup 67 grams,
bread 41 grams, coffee 417 grams.

Dinner.—Roast pork 294 grams, apple sauce 217 grams, potatoes 352 grams,
tapioca pudding 116 grams, coffee 417 grams.

Supper.—Biscuits 415 grams, butter 58 grams, blackberry jam 133 grams,
pickles 33 grams, tea 416 grams.


_Monday, November 2, 1903._

Breakfast.—Steamed oatmeal 448 grams, milk 208 grams, sugar 65 grams,
bread 70 grams, coffee 375 grams.

Dinner.—Beef stew 187 grams, potatoes 261 grams, onions 51 grams,
thickened with corn starch 14 grams, bread 140 grams, coffee 500 grams.

Supper.—Macaroni 149 grams, stewed tomatoes 271 grams, pickles 72 grams,
apple pie 109 grams, bread 139 grams, butter 53 grams, coffee 516 grams.


_Tuesday, November 3, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 303 grams, sugar 72 grams, milk 225 grams, bread
67 grams, coffee 450 grams.

Dinner.—Baked bean porridge 326 grams, boiled onions 128 grams, potatoes
287 grams, bread 105 grams, coffee 508 grams.

Supper.—Boiled cabbage 217 grams, Saratoga chips 53 grams, stewed prunes
67 grams, fried rice 149 grams, syrup 58 grams, coffee 516 grams, bacon
37 grams, potatoes 179 grams.


_Wednesday, November 4, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 250 grams, fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams,
coffee 335 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with bread, fat, and onions 200 grams, boiled
potatoes 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 226 grams, syrup 50 grams, biscuit 95 grams,
butter 30 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Thursday, November 5, 1903._

Breakfast.—Banana 114 grams, boiled rice[39] 250 grams, with milk 181
grams, and sugar 76 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Macaroni and cheese 300 grams, bread 50 grams, apple sauce 200
grams, custard pie 112 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Sausage 50 grams, potato chips 100 grams, stewed prunes 165
grams, bread 50 grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Friday, November 6, 1903._

Breakfast.—Rice croquettes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, tomatoes, and potatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup, tapioca-peach pudding 125 grams.

Supper.—Bread 127 grams, butter 40 grams, jam 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, November 7, 1903._

Breakfast.—Soft oatmeal 300 grams, milk 150 grams, sugar 50 grams, bread
30 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Bean porridge with onions 294 grams, stewed prunes 66 grams,
bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 292 grams, stewed peaches 97 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Sunday, November 8, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 197 grams, stewed hominy 248 grams, milk 150 grams,
sugar 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Beef stew thickened with corn starch, onions, and potatoes 405
grams, bread 75 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Pie 107 grams, chocolate 1 cup, biscuit 200 grams, butter 30
grams, stewed prunes 160 grams.

[Illustration: _Soldiers exercising in the gymnasium._]


_Monday, November 9, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 40 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 125 grams, cabbage 200 grams, potatoes 175 grams,
bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding 150 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Tuesday, November 10, 1903._

Breakfast.—Toasted bread 200 grams, butter 40 grams, boiled egg 50 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Macaroni baked with cheese 300 grams, bread 50 grams, apple sauce
200 grams, custard pie 112 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 300 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Wednesday, November 11, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 196 grams, boiled rice 247 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with bread, fat, and onions 200 grams, boiled
potatoes 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, biscuit 173 grams, butter
30 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, November 12, 1903._

Breakfast.—Banana 114 grams, toasted bread 179 grams, butter 50 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Sausage 96 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams, pickles 50
grams, bread 50 grams, apple and rice pudding 175 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Boiled hominy 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 47 grams, stewed
prunes 109 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Friday, November 13, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 277 grams, butter 50 grams, jam 125 grams, sardines 85
grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Saturday, November 14, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 250 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 50 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Beef stew with onions, potatoes, thickened with corn starch 350
grams, bread 75 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice croquettes 125 grams, syrup 40 grams, biscuit 175 grams,
butter 25 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, November 15, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 224 grams, soft boiled oatmeal 200 grams, milk 100
grams, sugar 40 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Macaroni and cheese 300 grams, stewed tomatoes 150 grams, bread
50 grams, pie 92 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried bacon 30 grams, fried egg 40 grams, potato chips 100 grams,
bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Monday, November 16, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 150 grams, syrup 40 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 75 grams, cabbage 200 grams, mashed potatoes 200
grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding 150 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Tuesday, November 17, 1903._

Breakfast.—Indian-meal pudding 200 grams, milk 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 337 grams,
bread 100 grams, sausage 44 grams, baked potato 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried Indian-meal pudding 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 35
grams, coffee 1 cup, apple sauce 100 grams, biscuit 150 grams.


_Wednesday, November 18, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, pickles 35 grams, bread pudding 250
grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, stewed peaches 75 grams.

Supper.—Fried hominy 150 grams, butter 25 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 75
grams, stewed prunes 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Thursday, November 19, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 300 grams, milk 150 grams, sugar 50 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak made with plenty of chopped bread, fat, and onions
200 grams, baked potato 250 grams, bread 75 grams, stewed tomatoes 250
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 275 grams, butter 50 grams, apple sauce 175 grams, tea 1
cup.


_Friday, November 20, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 200 grams, fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls made with plenty of potatoes 200 grams, boiled
onions 200 grams, bread 75 grams, apple pie 105 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Banana fritters 200 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 50 grams,
pickles 30 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Saturday, November 21, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 50 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Split pea soup 200 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30 grams,
tapioca-peach pudding 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 275 grams, stewed prunes 100 grams, butter 50 grams, tea
1 cup.


_Sunday, November 22, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 217 grams, Johnny cake made of corn meal 200 grams,
butter 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Beef stew with onions, potatoes, and corn starch 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup, pie 118 grams.

Supper.—Chocolate 1 cup, bread 150 grams, milk 300 grams.


_Monday, November 23, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 300 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 50 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Macaroni boiled 300 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75
grams, pie 114 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, jam 75 grams, bread 75
grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, November 24, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup, orange 200 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 100 grams, fried sausage 50 grams, baked potato 200 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, biscuit 150 grams, butter
35 grams, apple sauce 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Wednesday, November 25, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, coffee 1 cup,
orange 225 grams.

Dinner.—Split pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30
grams, apple pie 120 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 250 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, November 26, 1903._

Breakfast.—Biscuit 250 grams, butter 50 grams, apple sauce 150 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Roast turkey (sliced) 100 grams, cranberry sauce 150 grams,
mashed potatoes 150 grams, bread crumb stuffing 100 grams, boiled onions
200 grams, bread 75 grams, corn-starch pudding 125 grams, orange 200
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Crackers 50 grams, tea 1 cup, stewed prunes 150 grams, butter 50
grams, wheat bread 100 grams.


_Friday, November 27, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 250 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 50 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 275 grams, butter 50 grams, jam 125 grams, sardine 60
grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Saturday, November 28, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 200
grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 50
grams, apple pie 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 30 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, November 29, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, boiled potato 150
grams, bread pudding 250 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Stewed peaches 100 grams, butter 35 grams, bread 75 grams, fried
sausage 33 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Monday, November 30, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled oatmeal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 75 grams, cabbage 200 grams, mashed potatoes 200
grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding 100 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Tuesday, December 1, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 100 grams, shaved dried beef 30 grams, baked potato 147 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, crackers 50 grams, butter
30 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple sauce 100 grams.


_Wednesday, December 2, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, coffee 1 cup,
orange 200 grams.

Dinner.—Split pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30
grams, apple pie 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Stewed peaches 100 grams, bread pudding 250 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Thursday, December 3, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potatoes 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee 1
cup.


_Friday, December 4, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, tomatoes, and potatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 275 grams, butter 50 grams, coffee 1 cup, jam 125 grams,
sardines 75 grams.


_Saturday, December 5, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled oatmeal 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 50
grams, pie 117 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 30 grams, corn-starch custard
125 grams, bread 40 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, December 6, 1903._

Breakfast.—Banana 125 grams, toasted bread 150 grams, butter 50 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Sausage 50 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams, pickles 30
grams, apple-rice pudding 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Stewed prunes 150 grams, crackers 75 grams, butter 40 grams,
coffee 1 cup.


_Monday, December 7, 1903._

Breakfast.—Corn-meal Johnny-cake 200 grams, butter 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, boiled potatoes 200 grams, bread 75
grams, pie 146 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Crackers 80 grams, milk 200 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams,
coffee 1 cup.


_Tuesday, December 8, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Meat pie (made with a little meat, flour, etc.) 150 grams, mashed
potato 250 grams, stewed prunes 100 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 100 grams, cocoa 1
cup.


_Wednesday, December 9, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled oatmeal 175 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni without cheese 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 250
grams, bread 75 grams, pie 110 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread 200 grams, milk 200 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams, cocoa
1 cup.


_Thursday, December 10, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 125 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Roast beef 50 grams, boiled potato 200 grams, bread 75 grams,
boiled onions 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, crackers 50
grams, cocoa 1 cup.


_Friday, December 11, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 275 grams, butter 50 grams, sardine 50 grams, jam 125
grams, cocoa 1 cup.


_Saturday, December 12, 1903._

Breakfast.—Griddle cakes (with egg) 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Dinner.—Cold roast beef 50 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams,
apple-rice pudding 200 grams, pickles 30 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread 100 grams, butter 50 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, cocoa
1 cup.


_Sunday, December 13, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 100 grams, shaved dried beef 12 grams, baked potato 110 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread 150 grams, butter 50 grams, apple sauce 175 grams, cocoa 1
cup.


_Monday, December 14, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 175 grams, bread 75 grams, boiled onions
100 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, apple pie 121 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread 100 grams, milk 200 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams, cocoa
1 cup.


_Tuesday December 15, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with a little cheese 200 grams, stewed tomatoes
200 grams, bread 50 grams, pie 115 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 250 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Wednesday, December 16, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potatoes 200 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuits 150 grams, butter 20 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea
1 cup.


_Thursday, December 17, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup (thickened with flour) containing potatoes,
onions, and tomatoes 300 grams, bread 75 grams, apple-rice pudding 150
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Fried bacon 30 grams, baked potato 150 grams, bread 50 grams,
butter 15 grams, coffee 1 cup.


_Friday, December 18, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Shaved dried beef 30 grams, biscuit 150 grams, butter 20 grams,
apple sauce 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, December 19, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
bread 35 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 75 grams, cabbage 200 grams, boiled potatoes 175
grams, bread 40 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding with raisins 150 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams,
crackers 50 grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, December 20, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 150 grams, fried Indian-meal 100 grams, bread 35 grams,
syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 150 grams, bread 40 grams, boiled carrots
100 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, apple pie 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Sausage 50 grams, French fried potatoes 100 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, December 21, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 150 grams, syrup 40 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Beef stew (with onions and potatoes, thickened with corn starch)
350 grams, bread 75 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, December 22, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 150 grams, boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
30 grams, bread 30 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with cheese 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams,
bread 50 grams, pie 110 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 250 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 50
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, December 23, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, crackers 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30 grams,
tapioca-peach pudding 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, December 24, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 200 grams, boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams,
sugar 30 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
fried sausage 40 grams, bread 75 grams, baked potato 150 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 30 grams, jam 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, December 25, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 200 grams, fried hominy 130 grams, syrup 50 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Roast turkey 100 grams, bread-crumb stuffing 100 grams, cranberry
sauce 150 grams, boiled onions 200 grams, mashed potatoes 150 grams,
bread 75 grams, orange 200 grams, corn-starch custard 125 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Bread 100 grams, crackers 25 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams,
butter 40 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, December 26, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, pickles 35 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 25 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, December 27, 1903._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup,
apple 200 grams.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, stewed tomatoes
150 grams, pie 115 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding (plum duff) 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, tea 1
cup.


_Monday, December 28, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup, apple 200 grams.

Dinner.—Corned beef 75 grams, cabbage 200 grams, mashed potatoes 200
grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding 150 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 40
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, December 29, 1903._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup,
apple 210 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 50
grams, apple pie 140 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 35 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, December 30, 1903._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup, apple 150 grams, baked potato 100 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potatoes 200 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 150 grams, butter 20 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea
1 cup.


_Thursday, December 31, 1903._

Breakfast.—Apple 175 grams, fried rice 100 grams, syrup 56 grams, coffee
1 cup, baked potato 90 grams.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30
grams, boiled potato 100 grams, coffee 1 cup, pie 115 grams.

Supper.—Bread pudding 250 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 20
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, January 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, apple 175
grams, coffee 1 cup, baked potato 100 grams.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 350 grams, bread
75 grams, ice cream 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, crackers 25 grams,
tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, January 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup, apple 190 grams, baked potato 100 grams.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with small amount of cheese 200 grams, stewed
tomatoes 200 grams, bread 50 grams, pie 115 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 125 grams, butter 20 grams, fried bacon 30 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, January 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 190 grams, fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked
potato 90 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked potato 150 grams, dried beef 50 grams, stewed with milk 50
grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles 20 grams,
tapioca-peach pudding 125 grams.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, January 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
bread 35 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, bread pudding 150 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 30 grams, jam 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, January 5, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 300 grams, bread 75 grams, pickles 30
grams, coffee 1 cup, pie 100 grams.

Supper.—Fried bacon 30 grams, potato chips 100 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
60 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, January 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple
200 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with plenty of bread, fat, and onions 150 grams,
boiled potatoes 200 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee
1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 150 grams, butter 20 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea
1 cup.


_Thursday, January 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 190 grams, boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
30 grams, coffee 1 cup, baked potato 100 grams.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with small amount of cheese 200 grams, stewed
tomatoes 200 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup, pie 130 grams.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, crackers 25 grams,
tea 1 cup.


_Friday, January 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 150 grams, wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Fish-balls with creamed potatoes 150 grams, stewed tomatoes 200
grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, tapioca-peach pudding 125 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 150 grams, butter 20 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams, tea
1 cup, baked potato 100 grams.


_Saturday, January 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 200 grams, boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
30 grams, butter 10 grams, baked potato 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked potato 150 grams, dried beef 50 grams, stewed with milk 20
grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, pickles 20 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, January 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 250
grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 75 grams, bread pudding 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Toasted bread 100 grams, butter 20 grams, sardine 25 grams,
stewed prunes 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, January 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
bread 35 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled fresh beef 75 grams, boiled cabbage 200 grams, mashed
potatoes 200 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding 150 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 30
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, January 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup =
350 grams or 367 cc., bread 50 grams, butter 15 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75
grams, coffee 1 cup, 367 grams.

Supper.—Potato chips 100 grams, fried bacon 25 grams, bread 75 grams, jam
75 grams, tea 1 cup = 350 cc.

  Total nitrogen, 7.793 grams.      Fuel value, 2404 calories.


_Wednesday, January 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 130 cc. 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 30 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with plenty of bread, fat, and onions chopped
together 150 grams, boiled potatoes 200 grams, apple sauce 200 grams,
bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc.

Supper.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, tea 350 cc., bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 9.992 grams.      Fuel value, 2133 calories.


_Thursday, January 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 30 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, mashed potatoes
100 grams, pickles 30 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc., pie 120 grams.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, crackers 25 grams,
tea 1 cup = 350 cc.

  Total nitrogen, 7.412 grams.      Fuel value, 2000 calories.


_Friday, January 15, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup =
350 cc.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (4 parts potato, 1 part fish, fried in pork fat)
158 grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350
cc., apple pie 95 grams.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes (stones not included) 125
grams, bread 50 grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup = 350 cc.

  Total nitrogen, 8.560 grams.      Fuel value, 2030 calories.


_Saturday, January 16, 1904._

Breakfast.—Soft oatmeal 150 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 30 grams, bread
30 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc.

Dinner.—Baked macaroni with a little cheese 200 grams, stewed tomatoes
200 grams, bread 50 grams, tapioca-peach pudding 150 grams, coffee 1 cup
= 350 cc.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 100 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread 75
grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup = 350 cc.

  Total nitrogen, 7.282 grams.      Fuel value, 1824 calories.


_Sunday, January 17, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 125 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 30 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, mashed potato 100
grams, pickles 25 grams, coffee 1 cup = 350 cc., custard pie 105 grams.

Supper.—Crackers 50 grams, butter 15 grams, stewed prunes (without
stones) 125 grams, sponge cake 100 grams, tea 350 cc.

  Total nitrogen, 8.349 grams.      Fuel value, 2081 calories.


_Monday, January 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 150 grams, fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams,
baked potato 90 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Beef stew with potatoes and onions thickened with corn starch 300
grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 250 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 25
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, January 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 180 grams, boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
30 grams, baked potato 100 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 350 grams,
bread 75 grams, mashed potatoes 150 grams, pickles 30 grams, coffee 1
cup, pie 129 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 125 grams, butter 20 grams, apple sauce 175 grams,
crackers 16 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, January 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 150 grams, fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, biscuit
50 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked beans with a little salt pork 150 grams, bread 75 grams,
boiled onions 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 100 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, January 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Mashed potatoes 200 grams, fried egg 33 grams, bread 75 grams,
butter 15 grams, apple pie 117 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Crackers 50 grams, butter 10 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, tea
1 cup, sponge cake 50 grams.


_Friday, January 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup, baked potato 100 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 200 grams, bread
75 grams, mashed potato 100 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup, gingerbread 30
grams.


_Saturday, January 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams, coffee
1 cup, butter 10 grams, baked potato 150 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 125 grams, fried bacon 30 grams, bread 100
grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, January 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 125 grams,
coffee 1 cup, apple 150 grams.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup 200 grams, bread 100 grams, pickles 30 grams,
mashed potatoes 200 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie 100 grams.

Supper.—Baked apple with sugar 150 grams, crackers 50 grams, butter 20
grams, tea 1 cup, potato chips 50 grams.


_Monday, January 25, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup, baked potato 100 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Meat pie 200 grams (with 30 grams meat), boiled cabbage 200
grams, mashed potatoes 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Sponge cake 100 grams, stewed peaches 100 grams, crackers 25
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup, baked potato 115 grams.


_Tuesday, January 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 140 grams, wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50
grams, coffee 1 cup, bread 50 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Baked beans with a little salt pork 150 grams, boiled onions 100
grams, bread 75 grams, bread pudding 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 20 grams, apple sauce 125 grams, tea 1
cup.


_Wednesday, January 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—French fried potatoes 150 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread
75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 170 grams.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 75 grams, mashed potatoes
100 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Rice pudding with raisins 200 grams, apple sauce 150 grams,
crackers 25 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, January 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1
cup, banana 75 grams.

Dinner.—Baked potato 170 grams, dried beef 40 grams, stewed with milk 30
grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, pickles 20 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 15 grams, peach pie 120 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, January 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup,
French fried potatoes 50 grams.

Dinner.—Oyster soup[40] 300 grams, crackers 50 grams, bread 100 grams,
coffee 1 cup, salad made of lettuce leaves, chopped apple, and celery
with oil, salt, and pepper 75 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 20 grams, jam 125 grams, tea 1 cup,
apple 175 grams.


_Saturday, January 30, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled oatmeal 125 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, baked potato 50 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—French fried potatoes 200 grams, cold roast beef 40 grams, bread
75 grams, pickles 30 grams, carrots 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple-rice pudding 200 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, bread 100
grams, butter 30 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, January 31, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, bread 50 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 100 grams, fried egg 30 grams, baked potato 140 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Lettuce-apple-celery salad 100 grams, bread 100 grams, butter 20
grams, stewed peaches 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, February 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 50 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked beans 120 grams, with salt pork 30 grams, boiled onions 100
grams, mashed potatoes 200 grams, bread 75 grams, apple pie 120 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, crackers 32
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, February 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, apple 160 grams, bread
50 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, bread 75
grams, pie 120 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 20 grams, crackers 25 grams, stewed
prunes 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, February 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—French fried potatoes 150 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread
50 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 40 grams, cabbage 200 grams, mashed potatoes 200
grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, boiled rice 200 grams, syrup 50
grams.

Supper.—Lettuce-apple-celery salad 150 grams, bread 100 grams, butter 20
grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, February 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, coffee 1 cup,
baked potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Barley broth with potatoes and onions 250 grams, wheat flour
dumplings 150 grams, boiled turnips 200 grams, bread 75 grams,
tapioca-peach pudding 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, baked apple with sugar 150 grams,
crackers 25 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, February 5, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 100 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams, biscuit 175
grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled codfish 60 grams, mashed potatoes 250 grams, boiled onions
200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams,
crackers 25 grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, February 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, coffee
1 cup, banana 90 grams.

Dinner.—Baked beans 70 grams, with salt pork 30 grams, bread 75 grams,
boiled sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie
100 grams.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 125 grams, celery-lettuce-apple salad 150
grams, bread 100 grams, butter 20 grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, February 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 140 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, sponge cake 75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, February 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, bread
50 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti with a little grated cheese 200 grams, mashed
potato 200 grams, bread 75 grams, boiled tomato 150 grams, pickles 20
grams, fruit pie 130 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes
150 grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, February 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 125 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, bread 75 grams,
thick pea soup 200 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple
pie 150 grams.

Supper.—Celery-lettuce-apple salad 150 grams, crackers 32 grams, cheese
(American) 20 grams, Saratoga chips 75 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, February 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, coffee 1 cup, banana 90 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potatoes 200 grams, boiled
turnips 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 140 grams.

Supper.—Chocolate cake 150 grams, cranberry sauce 100 grams, chopped
fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 100 grams, bread 75 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, February 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Breakfast food 40 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 130 grams.

Dinner.—Baked beans 70 grams, salt pork 30 grams, bread 75 grams, boiled
cabbage 200 grams, boiled potato 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams,
tea 1 cup, cranberry sauce 100 grams.


_Friday, February 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Breakfast food 40 grams, milk 125 grams, banana 90 grams,
French fried potatoes 200 grams, sugar 25 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with onions, potatoes, and tomatoes 200 grams, bread
75 grams, mashed potato 200 grams, boiled turnips 150 grams, pie 125
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup, gingerbread 30
grams.


_Saturday, February 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 150 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, coffee
1 cup, baked potato 100 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Meat pie with meat, potatoes, and onions 200 grams, boiled
cabbage 200 grams, boiled potatoes 200 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Lettuce-apple-celery salad 150 grams, biscuit 150 grams, butter
20 grams, tea 1 cup, stewed prunes 125 grams.


_Sunday, February 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Apple 140 grams, fried rice 125 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked
sweet potato 142 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potatoes and onions boiled together, thickened
with corn starch 350 grams, bread 75 grams, canned string beans 100
grams, baked apple with sugar 140 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Small fried sausage 50 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams,
bread 50 grams, butter 10 grams, stewed prunes 100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, February 15, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, Johnny cake 50
grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak, with bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potato 200 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles
25 grams.

Supper.—Boiled Lima beans thoroughly cooked 75 grams, mashed potato 150
grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup, stewed peaches 125
grams.


_Tuesday, February 16, 1904._

Breakfast.—Brown bread 50 grams, baked potato 230 grams, butter 20 grams,
coffee 1 cup, apple 140 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, French
fried potatoes 150 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, pie 130 grams.

Supper.—Fried bacon 25 grams, potatoes stewed in cream 250 grams, rice
pudding 200 grams, bread 50 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, February 17, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 125 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked sweet potato 190
grams, butter 10 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 40 grams, cabbage 200 grams, mashed potato 200 grams,
bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, tapioca-peach pudding 200 grams.

Supper.—Lettuce-apple-celery salad 150 grams, bread 100 grams, butter 20
grams, cranberry sauce 125 grams, tea 1 cup, baked potato 100 grams.


_Thursday, February 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, banana 110 grams.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick) 200 grams, bread 100 grams, mashed
potatoes 200 grams, boiled onions 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Corned-beef bash (mostly potato) 125 grams, bread 50 grams, fried
sweet potato 150 grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup, jam 75 grams.


_Friday, February, 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 125 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, butter 10 grams, apple 140 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potatoes 250 grams, boiled
turnips 200 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie 100 grams.

Supper.—Chocolate cake 150 grams, cranberry sauce 125 grams, chopped
fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 100 grams, bread 75 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, February 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Breakfast food 40 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
French fried potatoes 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Barley broth with potatoes and onions 250 grams, wheat flour
dumplings 150 grams, boiled carrots 150 grams, bread 75 grams, boiled
sweet potato 180 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, baked apple with sugar 150 grams,
crackers 25 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, February 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled oatmeal (thin) 125 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25
grams, baked potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Roast beef 40 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 75 grams,
apple sauce 150 grams, stewed tomatoes 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding 200 grams, cranberry sauce 200 grams, potato chips
100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, February 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, baked potato 130 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled macaroni 200 grams, stewed tomatoes 250 grams, French
fried potatoes 200 grams, bread 35 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple sauce 150
grams.

Supper.—Lettuce-apple-celery salad 150 grams, biscuit 150 grams, butter
20 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, February 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams, coffee
1 cup, banana 90 grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup (thick) 200 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 35
grams, butter 10 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie
100 grams.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 100 grams, crackers 25 grams, butter 15
grams, tea 1 cup, stewed peaches 150 grams.


_Wednesday, February 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 125 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread 35 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled codfish 50 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, boiled carrots
150 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, jam 75 grams, crackers 25
grams, butter 15 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, February 25, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, baked sweet potato 125 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potatoes 200 grams, butter 15 grams, bread 50 grams, coffee 1 cup,
pickles 35 grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-apple pudding 250 grams, sponge cake 75 grams, cranberry
sauce 100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, February 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 50 grams, butter
10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 150 grams.

Dinner.—Oyster chowder with tomatoes, potatoes, and onions 200 grams,
bread 75 grams, string beans 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding with plums 125 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, baked
sweet potato 200 grams, crackers 25 grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, February 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—Soft boiled oatmeal 125 grams, milk 100 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, butter 10 grams, baked potato 140 grams.

Dinner.—Lyonnaise potato 175 grams, bacon 25 grams, boiled turnips 200
grams, coffee 1 cup, rice pudding 150 grams.

Supper.—Banana fritters 200 grams, stewed prunes 150 grams, crackers 25
grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, February 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Stewed peaches 150 grams, wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup
50 grams, coffee 1 cup, baked potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Barley broth with potatoes and onions 250 grams, wheat flour
dumplings 150 grams, French fried potatoes 150 grams, bread 35 grams,
coffee 1 cup, ice cream 100 grams.

Supper.—Saratoga chips 75 grams, fried sausage 40 grams, butter 15 grams,
bread 50 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, February 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 250 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 75
grams, boiled tomatoes 150 grams, apple pie 112 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350
grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, fried sweet potatoes 150
grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 10.466 grams.      Fuel value, 2670 calories.


_Tuesday, March 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Thick pea-soup 250 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, boiled sweet
potato 150 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350
grams.

Supper.—Celery-lettuce-apple salad 120 grams, crackers 32 grams, American
cheese 20 grams, Saratoga chips 79 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams, rice
custard 100 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 7.825 grams.      Fuel value, 2279 calories.


_Wednesday, March 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, banana 75 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potatoes 250 grams, boiled
turnips 150 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, apple sauce
150 grams.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar, 100 grams,
bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, chocolate cake 150 grams, cranberry
sauce 100 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 8.487 grams.      Fuel value, 2391 calories.


_Thursday, March 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat and onions 150 grams, boiled
potato 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350
grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, jam 75 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 8.750 grams.      Fuel value, 2375 calories.


_Friday, March 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish 4 parts potato) fried in pork fat 150
grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, stewed potatoes 150 grams, bread 75
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, apple pie 130 grams.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 200 grams, fried sausage 50 grams, butter
10 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, sponge cake 35 grams, bread 50 grams,
tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 10.427 grams.      Fuel value, 2374 calories.


_Saturday, March 5, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, 350 grams, fried sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup thick, with potatoes and onions boiled together 325
grams, bread 100 grams, scrambled egg 50 grams, mashed potato 150 grams,
coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed peaches 150 grams,
bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes 150 grams, bread 50 grams, butter
10 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 10.483 grams.      Fuel value, 2302 calories.


_Sunday, March 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, sliced banana 100
grams, baked potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Corned beef 50 grams, boiled cabbage 200 grams, mashed potato 250
grams, bread 75 grams, fried rice 100 grams, jam 75 grams, coffee 1 cup,
350 grams.

Supper.—Sponge cake 150 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, crackers 32 grams,
butter 10 grams, sardine 14 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 10.265 grams.      Fuel value, 3173 calories.


_Monday, March 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 300 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 75
grams, boiled tomatoes 200 grams, apple pie 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, fried bacon 30 grams, fried sweet potato 200
grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, March 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 200 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Thick pea-soup 300 grams, boiled sweet potato 250 grams, boiled
onions 150 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, pickles 30 grams,
coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 150 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, crackers
32 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, rice custard 100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, March 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, banana 90 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potato 250 grams, boiled
turnips 200 grams, bread 75 grams, apple sauce 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper and vinegar, 75 grams,
bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, chocolate cake 150 grams, cranberry
sauce 100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, March 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 250 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potato, 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles
30 grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, jam 100 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, March 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 250
grams, butter 10 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 4 parts potato, fried in pork fat)
150 grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, stewed potatoes 250 grams, bread 75
grams, apple pie 130 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 200 grams, fried sausage 50 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 10 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, sponge cake 35 grams,
tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, March 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
coffee 1 cup, fried sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup thick, with potatoes and onions 325 grams, bread 100
grams, fried egg 30 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles
30 grams.

Supper.—Fried bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes 150 grams, bread 50
grams, butter 10 grams, bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed
peaches 200 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, March 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, apple sauce 200
grams, baked potato 250 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
cabbage 200 grams, boiled potatoes 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, stewed peaches 200 grams, crackers 32
grams, butter 10 grams, sardine 30 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, March 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, coffee 1 cup, banana 80 grams.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 300 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, bread 75
grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, coffee 1 cup, baked apple with sugar
150 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, fried sweet potato 200
grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, March 15, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 200 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Thick pea-soup 300 grams, boiled potatoes 250 grams, boiled
onions 150 grams, pickles 30 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams,
coffee 1 cup, rice custard 100 grams.

Supper.—Fried bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes 200 grams, bread 50
grams, apple sauce 200 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Wednesday, March 16, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 200 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 4 parts potato, fried in pork fat)
150 grams, stewed potatoes 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, bread 75
grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie 125 grams.

Supper.—Apple-lettuce-celery salad 100 grams, bread 100 grams, butter 20
grams, stewed peaches 200 grams, tea 1 cup, sponge cake 50 grams.


_Thursday, March 17, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 250 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, mashed
potato 250 grams, pickles 30 grams, bread 50 grams, butter 10 grams,
boiled turnips 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, jam 100 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, March 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 250
grams, butter 10 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Clam chowder with much potato, tomato and onions 250 grams, bread
75 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, boiled sweet potato 150 grams, coffee
1 cup, pickles 30 grams.

Supper.—Bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed peaches 200 grams,
fried bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes 150 grams, crackers 24 grams,
butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, March 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 200 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
fried sweet potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup thick, with potatoes and onions 325 grams, bread 100
grams, mashed potato 250 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles 30 grams.

Supper.—Fried egg 30 grams, baked potato 250 grams, butter 20 grams,
biscuit 175 grams, tea 1 cup, stewed prunes 125 grams.


_Sunday, March 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 250
grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 150 grams.

Dinner.—Roast beef 50 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, boiled carrots 100
grams, bread 50 grams, apple pie 130 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles 30
grams.

Supper.—Apple fritters 200 grams, cranberry sauce 150 grams, gingerbread
30 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, March 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Wheat griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, butter 10
grams, baked potato 200 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 250 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, stewed
tomatoes 150 grams, bread 75 grams, apple pie 125 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Biscuit 150 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, fried sweet potatoes 150
grams, butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Tuesday, March 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potatoes 150 grams, coffee 1 cup, butter 10 grams.

Dinner.—Thick pea-soup 250 grams, boiled onions 150 grams, boiled sweet
potato 150 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, pickles
25 grams.

Supper.—Banana with sugar 75 grams, crackers 32 grams, American cheese 20
grams, Saratoga chips 75 grams, tea 1 cup, rice custard 100 grams.


_Wednesday, March 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 150 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled salt mackerel 25 grams, boiled potato 250 grams, boiled
turnips 150 grams, pickle 20 grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple
sauce 100 grams.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 100 grams,
bread 75 grams, butter 20 grams, chocolate cake 100 grams, cranberry
sauce 100 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Thursday, March 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 150 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 150 grams, boiled
potatoes 250 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 250 grams, bread 75 grams, jam 75 grams,
butter 20 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Friday, March 25, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 150 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 4 parts potato, fried in pork fat)
150 grams, stewed tomatoes 200 grams, stewed potatoes 150 grams, bread 75
grams, coffee 1 cup, apple pie 130 grams.

Supper.—French fried potatoes 200 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, butter 10
grams, bread 50 grams, stewed prunes 125 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Saturday, March 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled Indian-meal 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar 25 grams,
butter 10 grams, fried sweet potato 150 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Tomato soup with potato and onions boiled together 325 grams,
bread 100 grams, fried egg 40 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, coffee 1
cup.

Supper.—Saratoga chips 50 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, bread 50 grams,
butter 10 grams, bread pudding with raisins 250 grams, stewed peaches 150
grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday, March 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 150
grams, coffee 1 cup, butter 10 grams, banana 90 grams.

Dinner.—Corned beef 40 grams, boiled cabbage 200 grams, mashed potato 250
grams, bread 75 grams, coffee 1 cup, squash pie 130 grams.

Supper.—Suet pudding 150 grams, apple sauce 150 grams, crackers 32 grams,
butter 10 grams, chopped cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar 60 grams,
tea 1 cup.


_Monday, March 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 250 grams,
butter 20 grams, coffee, 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Thick pea-soup 200 grams, boiled onions 100 grams, boiled sweet
potato 250 grams, bread 50 grams, mashed potato 200 grams, butter 20
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 125 grams, fried bacon 20 grams, French fried potatoes
200 grams, butter 25 grams, banana 150 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 9.027 grams.      Fuel value, 2935 calories.


_Tuesday, March 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Boiled hominy 175 grams, milk 75 grams, sugar 25 grams, baked
potato 250 grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak with much bread, fat, and onions 125 grams, boiled
potatoes 300 grams, butter 10 grams, bread 35 grams, boiled carrots 125
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Tapioca-peach pudding 300 grams, bread 35 grams, Saratoga chips
75 grams, butter 20 grams, jam 75 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 8.972 grams.      Fuel value, 2840 calories.


_Wednesday, March 30, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, butter 10 grams,
banana 250 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Codfish-balls (1 part fish, 5 parts potato, fried in pork fat)
125 grams, bread 35 grams, mashed potatoes 250 grams, stewed tomatoes 200
grams, apple sauce 200 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Chopped fresh cabbage with salt, pepper, and vinegar, 75 grams,
bread 50 grams, butter 20 grams, fried sweet potato 250 grams, cranberry
sauce 200 grams, sponge cake 50 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 9.356 grams.      Fuel value, 2657 calories.


_Thursday, March 31, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried Indian-meal 100 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 250
grams, butter 20 grams, coffee, 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup thick, with potato and onions boiled together 300
grams, mashed potato 200 grams, scrambled egg 50 grams, bread 50 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Fried bacon 20 grams, boiled potato 200 grams, butter 10 grams,
bread pudding 150 grams, banana 200 grams, tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 8.420 grams.      Fuel value, 2466 calories.


_Friday, April 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried hominy 150 grams, syrup 75 grams, baked potato 200
grams, butter 20 grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Dinner.—Baked spaghetti 250 grams, mashed potato 250 grams, boiled
turnips 150 grams, bread 35 grams, butter 10 grams, apple sauce 200
grams, coffee 1 cup, 350 grams.

Supper.—Fried sweet potato 200 grams, butter 20 grams, jam 100 grams,
fried bacon 25 grams, bread 35 grams, apple-tapioca pudding 300 grams,
tea 1 cup, 350 grams.

  Total nitrogen, 7.342 grams.      Fuel value, 3248 calories.


_Saturday, April 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Griddle cakes 200 grams, syrup 50 grams, baked potato 200
grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, apple 140 grams.

Dinner.—Boiled mackerel 25 grams, boiled potato 250 grams, boiled turnips
150 grams, pickles 35 grams, bread 50 grams, pie 130 grams, butter 10
grams, coffee 1 cup.

Supper.—Suet pudding 125 grams, cranberry sauce 150 grams, baked sweet
potato 200 grams, crackers 25 grams, butter 10 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Sunday April 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 90 grams, boiled rice 175 grams, milk 125 grams, sugar
25 grams, baked potato 200 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Corned beef 40 grams, boiled cabbage 200 grams, boiled potatoes
200 grams, bread 75 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup, stewed prunes
150 grams.

Supper.—Apple-tapioca pudding 250 grams, jam 75 grams, crackers 25 grams,
butter 10 grams, pickles 25 grams, tea 1 cup.


_Monday, April 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, apple 130 grams, baked
sweet potato 200 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 1 cup.

Dinner.—Lyonnaise potatoes 175 grams, bacon 25 grams, boiled turnips 200
grams, pie 130 grams, coffee 1 cup, bread 75 grams.

Supper.—Biscuit 175 grams, butter 25 grams, egg 40 grams, stewed apples
150 grams, tea 1 cup.




III. EXPERIMENTS WITH UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, TRAINED IN ATHLETICS.


Men in training for athletic events deem it necessary to consume large
amounts of proteid food. Great muscular activity, it is true, calls for
the expenditure of corresponding amounts of energy, but it is by no
means clear that the energy so liberated comes from the breaking down of
proteid material. Indeed, there is more reason for believing that the
energy of muscular contraction comes primarily from the oxidation of
non-nitrogenous matter. Nevertheless, custom and long experience sanction
a high proteid diet, composed largely of meat or of other foodstuffs rich
in nitrogen, for the development of that vigor and strength that go to
make the accomplished athlete. For the development of new muscle tissue,
to make two muscle fibres where before only one existed, to increase the
number of available fibres, thereby adding to the bulk of the active
tissue, a certain amount of proteid food is absolutely necessary, just as
it is for all active tissues and organs of the body. But that this fact
constitutes a satisfactory reason for the daily use of such quantities
of proteid food as usually enter into the diet of the average athlete is
very questionable.

As an illustration of the character of the diet frequently made use of
by men doing prolonged muscular work, I may quote a few figures from an
article by Professor W. O. Atwater[41] and H. C. Sherman on “The effect
of severe and prolonged muscular work upon Food consumption, Digestion,
and Metabolism,” in which are recorded observations made upon several
professional bicycle riders during a six-day race. On one day subject
“M” rode 334.1 miles, consuming for food on that day meat extract, 311
grams; milk, 4937 grams; bread, 35 grams; boiled cereals, 877 grams;
pastry, 142 grams; sugar, 53 grams; fruit, 2003 grams. His urine for the
day contained 46.2 grams of nitrogen, corresponding to the metabolism
of 288.7 grams of proteid matter. Subject “A” on one day rode 352.7
miles, taking as food, meat, 149 grams; meat extract, 24 grams; broth,
283 grams; eggs, 369 grams; butter, 78 grams; milk, 142 grams; malted
milk, 78 grams; jelly, 213 grams; soup, 191 grams; bread, 361 grams;
boiled cereal, 532 grams; sugar, about 400 grams; fruit, 933 grams;
cocoa wine, 198 grams. His day’s urine contained 39.0 grams of nitrogen,
corresponding to the metabolism of 243.7 grams of proteid material.

Obviously, if such high proteid metabolism as these figures imply is a
necessary concomitant of vigorous or excessive muscular activity, then
a rich proteid diet is needed to make good the loss of nitrogen to the
body; but we are more inclined to believe that the large quantity of
nitrogen excreted was the result chiefly of the high proteid ration, and
only in small measure connected with the work done. With a sufficiency
of non-nitrogenous food, the energy of muscular contraction does not
come in any large degree from the breaking down of proteid matter, and
there would seem to be no adequate reason for assuming a necessity for
such rich and excessive proteid diet as athletes in training ordinarily
adopt. Yet the contrary view is almost universally held and followed. As
a prominent trainer said to the writer not long ago, “if the men are not
fed on a rich meat diet and plenty of it, they will grow soft and lose
their strength.”

With a view to testing some of these points and thereby broaden the scope
of the investigation and enhance the value of the study, a group of eight
students in the University, all trained athletes, was secured. These men
volunteered to aid in the study, and at considerable self-sacrifice gave
intelligent and hearty co-operation in all ways possible. The men were
under observation from January 15, 1904, to the middle of June, 1904, a
period of five months. From January 15 the urine was collected daily,
and for a period of ten days the regular diet of the men was adhered to
without any deviation whatever, with a view to ascertaining the extent of
the proteid metabolism characteristic of each individual. No restrictions
whatever in diet were suggested, but the ordinary food that the men were
accustomed to eat while in training was taken. After this period the men
were instructed to diminish somewhat the intake of proteid food, and in
following out this plan most of the men diminished quite appreciably
the quantity of food consumed at breakfast time, and in some cases
stopped taking food of any kind at breakfast other than a cereal, with
possibly coffee. No specific diet was imposed, but the men, being willing
collaborators in the experiment, gradually cut down the intake of proteid
food, diminishing likewise in considerable measure the total volume of
food for the twenty-four hours.

[Illustration: STAPLETON

_Photograph taken in the middle of the experiment, in April._]

The following brief description of the men, taken from Dr. Anderson’s
report of their physical condition, to be referred to later, will suffice
to make clear the characteristics (as athletes) of these subjects of
study:

Mr. G. W. Anderson is a foot-ball, base-ball, and basket-ball player, as
well as a crew man (not Varsity). Well built and an all round athlete.
26.5 years of age.

Mr. W. L. Anderson, a “Y” athlete (hurdler), the captain of the Yale
Gymnastic Team, University Gymnastic Champion, and American Collegiate
Gymnastic Champion. 21.5 years of age.

Mr. H. S. Bellis, a member of the Y. G. A., a gymnast and acrobat and in
constant training. 26 years of age.

Dr. W. H. Callahan, Medical Assistant at the Gymnasium, in daily practice
in the gymnasium; bowling, hand-ball, and running. 27 years of age.

Mr. M. Donahue, a very muscular and versatile athlete, a foot-ball player
and a Varsity basket-ball player. 25 years of age.

Mr. C. S. Jacobus, a “Y” athlete, a noted long-distance man, and one of
the best University runners. 22.3 years of age.

Mr. H. R. Schenker, an active member of the Y. G. A., a point winner and
intercollegiate competitor in gymnastics. 22 years of age.

Mr. John Stapleton, a wrestler and gymnast. A professional, a man of
large body and great strength. 24 years of age.

The results of the daily study of the twenty-four hours’ urine of
each man for the entire period of five months are to be found in
the accompanying tables. By a careful inspection of these data many
interesting facts are brought to light. First it is to be observed, in
harmony with what has already been stated regarding athletes, that the
men, as a rule, were accustomed to the taking of large amounts of proteid
food daily. Thus, during the preliminary period of ten days, Dr. Callahan
excreted through the kidneys 22.79 grams of nitrogen as the daily
average, corresponding to the metabolism of 142 grams of proteid matter
per day, while on one day the nitrogen excretion reached the high figure
of 31.99 grams, corresponding practically to the metabolism of 200 grams
of proteid material.

G. W. Anderson, during the preliminary period of ten days—on his ordinary
diet—showed an average daily excretion of 17.18 grams of nitrogen. W.
L. Anderson in this same period excreted on an average 18.22 grams of
nitrogen per day, while on one day the excretion reached 23.42 grams
of nitrogen. Bellis showed an average daily excretion of 17.64 grams
of nitrogen during this same fore period, while Stapleton excreted
nitrogen at an average rate of 19.7 grams per day, thus indicating an
average daily metabolism of 123 grams of proteid matter on his ordinary
diet. With such data before us it is quite clear that we have here, as
expected, a group of sturdy men accustomed to the taking of large amounts
of proteid food daily; men who clearly believed that their strength and
bodily vigor depended in large measure upon the ingestion and utilization
of these quantities of proteid food.

After the termination of this preliminary period, the men began to
diminish the amount of albuminous food. In doing this they were at
first given perfect freedom, each man following his own preferences,
and making such alterations in his diet as he saw fit. The men were
instructed as to the chemical composition of the various foodstuffs,
so that they had a general idea of what foods were rich in nitrogen
and could act accordingly. Some of the men cut down their intake of
proteid food very rapidly, others made more gradual reduction. Some soon
eliminated breakfast almost entirely. Others reduced the amount of food
at each meal. Some of the men eliminated meat almost completely from
their diet, and increased largely the intake of vegetable food. They were
all advised, however, not to make too sudden a change in their diet, but
to adopt a gradual reduction in the daily food as being less liable to
disturb their physiological equilibrium. Naturally, the men knew exactly
how much of a reduction in proteid food they were accomplishing each
week, from the results of the chemical analysis of the urine. Further,
the record of body-weight furnished evidence of how far the changes
in diet were affecting body equilibrium, while their own feelings and
ability to do their daily work constituted a check upon a too radical
change in living. Careful perusal of the tables will show how far
body-weight was changed, and to how great an extent proteid metabolism
was reduced during the five months of the experiment.


ANDERSON, G. W.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   16 |  75.0 | 1300  | 1022 |   18.02   |    0.470  |           |
  |        17 |       | 1300  | 1027 |   18.88   |    1.360  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1600  | 1025 |   17.95   |    1.008  |           |
  |        19 |       | 1085  | 1030 |   16.27   |    1.139  |           |
  |        20 |       |  890  | 1031 |   17.19   |    1.008  |           |
  |        21 |       | 1080  | 1030 |   17.69   |    0.940  |           |
  |        22 |  75.0 | 1340  | 1027 |   16.32   |    0.814  |           |
  |        23 |  75.0 | 1210  | 1028 |   17.42   |    1.020  |           |
  |        24 |  75.0 |  990  | 1031 |   14.85   |    0.850  |           |
  |        25 |  75.0 | 1020  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1035  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  865  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  800  | 1029 |⎬  14.19   |    0.768  |    2.70   |
  |        29 |       |  690  | 1026 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |       |  765  | 1026 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |       |  800  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  75.0 |  970  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1070  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  740  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  870  | 1027 |⎬  11.85   |    0.633  |    1.77   |
  |         5 |       | 2660  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  860  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  865  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  75.0 |  890  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  75.0 |  780  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  75.0 | 1025  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  75.0 | 1240  | 1024 |⎬  10.90   |    0.820  |    1.76   |
  |        12 |  75.0 |  815  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  75.0 |  940  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  75.0 | 1300  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  945  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  73.5 | 1090  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  73.0 |  720  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  73.0 | 1000  | 1028 |⎬  10.38   |    0.792  |           |
  |        19 |  73.0 | 1000  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1300  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       | 1110  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  780  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  73.0 |  730  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  730  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  910  | 1028 |⎬  10.00   |    0.699  |    1.72   |
  |        26 |       |  780  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  73.0 | 1470  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1010  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  72.0 |  910  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       |  775  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1555  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  885  | 1028 |⎬  11.70   |    0.749  |    1.84   |
  |         4 |       | 1060  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  910  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  770  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  72.0 |  850  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  730  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  740  | 1029 |⎬  11.11   |    0.705  |           |
  |        11 |  72.0 |  770  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  920  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1265  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  745  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  645  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  71.8 |  700  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  660  | 1028 |⎬   7.34   |    0.630  |           |
  |        18 |       |  640  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  72.0 |  885  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       |  885  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       | 1180  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  660  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  71.0 |  720  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  840  | 1027 |⎬   7.41   |    0.628  |           |
  |        25 |       |  870  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  770  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  800  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  800  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  810  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  71.0 |  820  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  780  | 1032 |⎬   9.66   |    0.597  |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       |  630  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  730  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  625  | 1033 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  700  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  740  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  695  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1220  | 1020 |⎬   9.75   |    0.637  |    1.68   |
  |         8 |       |  670  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  590  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  510  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  71.0 |  560  | 1033 |⎫          |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       |  640  | 1030 |⎭   9.23   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  530  | 1030 |    8.11   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       | 1195  | 1019 |   10.32   |⎬   0.671  |           |
  |        15 |       | 1005  | 1024 |    9.48   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1140  | 1021 |   10.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1050  | 1023 |    9.58   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |  71.0 |  870  | 1026 |    9.03   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       | 1110  | 1025 |   11.12   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1170  | 1023 |    9.80   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  810  | 1030 |    7.15   |⎬   0.580  |           |
  |        22 |       |  870  | 1029 |    9.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  660  | 1029 |    8.84   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  70.0 |  765  | 1029 |    8.49   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  640  | 1028 |    8.06   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  950  | 1026 |    9.80   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1120  | 1023 |    9.34   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1150  | 1021 |    9.04   |⎬   0.522  |           |
  |        29 |       |  860  | 1027 |    8.93   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  71.0 |  870  | 1028 |    9.71   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       |  930  | 1025 |   10.16   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  70.0 |  925  | 1021 |    8.88   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |  70.0 |  935  | 1023 |    9.20   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 1140  | 1024 |    9.10   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       |  990  | 1026 |    8.32   |⎬   0.451  |           |
  |         6 |       |  960  | 1026 |    8.06   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       |  585  | 1031 |    7.55   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       |  620  | 1031 |    7.48   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |       |  660  | 1029 |    8.20   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       |  740  | 1024 |    8.66   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |  70.0 | 1000  | 1023 |    8.10   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  70.0 |  725  | 1025 |    8.09   |⎬   0.530  |           |
  |        13 |  71.0 |  650  | 1029 |    7.33   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  780  | 1031 |    9.73   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       |  670  | 1028 |    7.40   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       |  730  | 1030 |    8.50   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1025  | 1025 |    8.98   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  930  | 1028 |    8.87   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  71.1 |  865  | 1025 |    8.36   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  71.0 | 1030  | 1027 |    9.95   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  70.2 |  735  | 1030 |    8.51   |⎬   0.523  |           |
  |        22 |  70.0 |  570  | 1029 |    6.50   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  625  | 1026 |    6.90   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  70.5 |  870  | 1027 |    8.45   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  665  | 1026 |   10.25   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  70.0 |  640  | 1028 |    6.84   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  70.5 |  780  | 1024 |    7.58   |⎬   0.586  |           |
  |        28 |  70.0 |  660  | 1032 |    7.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        29 |       |  650  | 1027 |    6.91   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  70.0 |  700  | 1028 |    6.97   |⎭          |           |
  | June    1 |       |  940  | 1026 |    8.40   |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  726  | 1028 |    7.49   |           |           |
  |         3 |  70.9 |  980  | 1020 |    8.65   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  946  | 1026 |    8.80   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  582  | 1029 |    6.32   |           |           |
  |         6 |  70.5 |  718  | 1027 |    7.67   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  670  | 1028 |    8.40   |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1160  | 1021 |   10.44   |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1010  | 1025 |    9.09   |           |           |
  |        10 |  70.2 | 1510  | 1020 |   11.33   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  725  | 1029 |    9.70   |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1020  | 1023 |   10.10   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  920  | 1024 |   10.82   |           |           |
  |        14 |  70.0 |  740  | 1030 |   10.53   |           |           |
  |        15 |  70.9 | 1425  | 1023 |   13.34   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1           |  879  | 1027 |           |    0.632  |    1.75   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1 to Apr. 12|       |      |    9.94   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Apr. 13 to June  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  15               |       |      |    8.81   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


ANDERSON, W. L.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   15 |  63.1 | 1240  | 1026 |   16.44   |    0.733  |           |
  |        16 |  63.1 | 1720  | 1020 |   18.68   |    0.755  |           |
  |        17 |  63.1 | 1470  | 1025 |   18.35   |    1.523  |           |
  |        18 |  61.3 | 1940  | 1018 |   19.09   |    0.866  |           |
  |        19 |  63.1 | 1850  | 1020 |   23.42   |    0.784  |           |
  |        20 |  63.1 |  600  | 1026 |⎫  16.85   |           |           |
  |        21 |  63.1 | 1720  | 1021 |⎭ daily av.|           |           |
  |        22 |  62.7 | 1470  | 1017 |   13.41   |    0.584  |           |
  |        23 |       | 1210  | 1026 |   19.53   |    0.858  |           |
  |        24 |  63.0 | 1130  | 1025 |           |    0.598  |           |
  |        25 |  62.9 | 1060  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  63.1 | 1025  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  63.1 | 1560  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  63.6 |  890  | 1024 |⎬  12.47   |    0.497  |    1.95   |
  |        29 |  63.6 | 1350  | 1019 |⎪          |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  63.6 | 1070  | 1020 |⎪          |   average |   average |
  |        31 |  63.3 | 1410  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  63.3 | 1425  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  62.8 |  940  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.0 |  865  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  62.2 | 1280  | 1020 |⎬  10.65   |    0.493  |    1.99   |
  |         5 |  62.2 | 1120  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  62.3 | 1390  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.3 | 1050  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  62.3 | 1150  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  62.3 | 1430  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  60.0 |  910  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  60.0 | 1095  | 1018 |⎬  10.82   |    0.505  |    2.07   |
  |        12 |  60.0 |  865  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  62.1 |  865  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  62.1 | 1580  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  62.2 | 1270  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  61.2 |  690  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1070  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  61.9 |  990  | 1025 |⎬  12.58   |    0.507  |           |
  |        19 |       | 1480  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  60.9 | 1450  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  62.0 | 2582  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  62.0 | 1311  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  62.2 | 1460  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  60.0 | 1085  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  60.0 | 1215  | 1020 |⎬  11.70   |    0.846  |    2.40   |
  |        26 |  62.2 |  835  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  62.2 | 1590  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  62.2 | 1790  | 1012 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  62.3 |  820  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  61.1 |  770  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  62.2 |  670  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.2 | 1295  | 1023 |⎬  12.91   |    0.669  |    2.32   |
  |         4 |       | 1530  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.2 | 1260  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  62.3 | 1340  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.3 |  920  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  62.3 | 1200  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  880  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1670  | 1019 |⎬   9.21   |    0.475  |           |
  |        12 |  62.0 | 1865  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1640  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  62.2 |  790  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  62.2 |  715  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  62.2 | 1350  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  62.2 | 1140  | 1012 |⎬   9.66   |    0.475  |           |
  |        18 |  61.4 |  980  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  62.9 | 1050  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1012  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  62.0 |  910  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       | 1460  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  61.9 | 1310  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  61.2 | 1050  | 1022 |⎬  12.25   |    0.713  |           |
  |        25 |  62.0 |  860  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  61.0 |  975  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       | 1080  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1120  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1690  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1680  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  62.3 | 1325  | 1018 |⎬  11.19   |    0.551  |           |
  |         2 |  62.9 | 1075  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.9 | 1500  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  63.1 |  800  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.9 | 1000  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.3 |  750  | 1027 |⎬  10.21   |    0.625  |    1.92   |
  |         8 |  62.3 |  600  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  62.3 |  500  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  62.3 |  830  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  61.3 |  600  | 1024 |⎫   7.47   |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |  62.2 |  950  | 1023 |⎭          |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  800  | 1028 |    6.77   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       | 1090  | 1018 |    8.83   |⎬   0.454  |           |
  |        15 |       | 1250  | 1025 |    6.58   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1480  | 1014 |    7.81   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  61.3 | 1130  | 1024 |   10.98   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       |  590  | 1021 |    5.56   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       |  840  | 1024 |    9.63   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  980  | 1024 |   12.24   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1220  | 1022 |   10.69   |⎬   0.431  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1190  | 1019 |    9.50   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       | 1390  | 1020 |   10.43   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  62.2 | 1160  | 1017 |    7.52   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1010  | 1014 |    5.94   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       | 1200  | 1019 |   10.14   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1660  | 1015 |    9.66   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |  61.8 | 1085  | 1021 |    8.59   |⎬   0.459  |           |
  |        29 |  61.8 | 1020  | 1022 |   10.83   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1130  | 1022 |   10.28   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       | 1695  | 1016 |    9.55   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       | 1530  | 1013 |    6.98   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1230  | 1023 |    9.67   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 1200  | 1020 |    8.50   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       | 1000  | 1024 |    9.30   |⎬   0.237  |           |
  |         6 |       | 1390  | 1022 |   11.08   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       | 1025  | 1017 |    6.46   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       | 1520  | 1017 |    8.66   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |  62.3 |  970  | 1017 |    6.40   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |  61.5 |       |      |           |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       | 1140  | 1022 |   10.33   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  60.9 |  745  | 1017 |    6.39   |⎬   0.451  |           |
  |        13 |       |  850  | 1022 |    8.31   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       | 1140  | 1022 |   10.12   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       | 1365  | 1017 |    8.76   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1120  | 1017 |    6.58   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1940  | 1014 |   10.83   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1370  | 1021 |   10.03   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  61.3 | 1120  | 1022 |   10.15   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1170  | 1018 |    8.64   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1530  | 1015 |    8.46   |⎬   0.439  |           |
  |        22 |       |  890  | 1024 |    7.96   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       | 1200  | 1017 |    7.49   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  61.1 |  770  | 1024 |    6.60   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  690  | 1024 |    7.04   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  60.2 |  745  | 1025 |    8.09   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  970  | 1023 |   10.40   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1160  | 1022 |   10.37   |⎬   0.448  |           |
  |        29 |       |       |      |           |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  920  | 1025 |    8.94   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |       |       |      |           |⎭          |           |
  | June    1 |       | 1400  | 1012 |    5.54   |           |           |
  |         2 |  59.5 | 1070  | 1020 |    8.48   |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1190  | 1018 |    8.78   |           |           |
  |         4 |  59.7 | 1020  | 1022 |    9.00   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  870  | 1023 |    8.67   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  870  | 1025 |    8.72   |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1350  | 1017 |    9.31   |           |           |
  |         8 |  60.4 | 1380  | 1017 |   11.55   |           |           |
  |         9 |  60.4 | 1520  | 1017 |    9.58   |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1590  | 1013 |    7.35   |           |           |
  |        11 |  60.4 | 1425  | 1017 |    7.74   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  870  | 1021 |    7.67   |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1410  | 1017 |   10.32   |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1180  | 1022 |   10.84   |           |           |
  |        15 |  61.0 |  875  | 1019 |    5.67   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1           | 1156  | 1020 |           |    0.516  |    2.14   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1 to April  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |   10.78   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  15               |       |      |   10.05   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


BELLIS.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   15 |  81.8 | 1180  | 1026 |   13.24   |    0.778  |           |
  |        16 |  82.2 | 1915  | 1019 |   16.09   |    0.862  |           |
  |        17 |  82.2 | 1740  | 1024 |   16.18   |    0.881  |           |
  |        18 |  82.2 | 2030  | 1021 |   20.10   |    0.868  |           |
  |        19 |  82.2 | 1700  | 1026 |   17.34   |    0.771  |           |
  |        20 |  82.2 | 1800  | 1022 |   17.82   |    0.650  |           |
  |        21 |  82.2 | 1565  | 1027 |   26.18   |    1.020  |           |
  |        22 |  82.2 | 1435  | 1026 |   22.64   |    1.010  |           |
  |        23 |  82.2 | 1285  | 1017 |   10.49   |    0.467  |           |
  |        24 |       | 1070  | 1026 |   16.37   |    0.786  |           |
  |        25 |  80.7 |  590  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  81.4 | 1300  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  82.1 | 1020  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  81.2 | 1190  | 1027 |⎬  13.35   |    0.693  |    2.32   |
  |        29 |  81.2 | 1440  | 1018 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  81.3 | 1450  | 1023 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |  81.2 | 1000  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  81.2 | 1230  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  81.2 | 1145  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  81.2 | 1000  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  81.2 |  910  | 1030 |⎬  12.98   |    0.674  |    2.29   |
  |         5 |  81.2 | 1360  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  81.2 | 1160  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  81.2 | 1210  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  81.2 | 1375  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  81.2 |  920  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  81.2 | 1775  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  81.2 | 1130  | 1026 |⎬  13.03   |    0.659  |    2.44   |
  |        12 |  81.2 | 1075  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  81.2 | 1405  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  81.2 | 1055  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  81.0 | 1470  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  81.1 |  920  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  81.1 | 1530  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  81.1 | 1330  | 1023 |⎬  14.15   |    0.750  |           |
  |        19 |  81.1 | 1680  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  81.1 |  950  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  81.1 | 2050  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  81.1 | 1450  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  81.1 | 1540  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  79.4 |  800  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  80.0 |  785  | 1033 |⎬  14.79   |    0.850  |    2.60   |
  |        26 |  80.4 | 1420  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  80.1 | 1250  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  80.1 | 1070  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  80.1 | 1270  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  80.0 | 1150  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  80.0 | 1530  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  80.0 | 1320  | 1018 |⎬  10.77   |    0.550  |    2.34   |
  |         4 |  80.0 | 1635  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  80.0 | 1220  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  80.1 | 1550  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  80.0 | 1170  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  80.0 | 1120  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  80.0 | 1220  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  80.0 | 1210  | 1020 |⎬  10.29   |    0.628  |           |
  |        11 |  80.0 | 1650  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  80.0 | 1355  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  80.0 | 1040  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  80.0 |  670  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  80.0 | 1330  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  80.0 |  915  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  80.0 | 1600  | 1016 |⎬  10.05   |    0.622  |           |
  |        18 |  80.0 | 1510  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  80.0 | 1490  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  79.9 |  920  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  79.8 |  710  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  79.8 |  800  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  79.3 |  800  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  79.3 | 1100  | 1025 |⎬  10.15   |    0.728  |           |
  |        25 |  79.4 | 1060  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  79.4 | 1580  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  79.2 | 1040  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  79.3 | 1360  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  79.2 | 1335  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1030  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  905  | 1019 |⎬   8.52   |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       |  870  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  810  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  78.6 |  785  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  720  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  730  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  790  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  880  | 1026 |⎬   7.27   |    0.665  |    1.62   |
  |         8 |       |  790  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  860  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  890  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  890  | 1025 |⎫   8.18   |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       |  590  | 1025 |⎭          |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  77.2 |  960  | 1025 |    7.95   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  930  | 1019 |    6.59   |⎬   0.496  |           |
  |        15 |       | 1090  | 1018 |    6.82   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1250  | 1022 |   10.35   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       |  650  | 1025 |    5.97   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       |  970  | 1020 |    7.92   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       | 1040  | 1020 |    6.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1150  | 1019 |    8.49   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1225  | 1019 |    8.75   |⎬   0.522  |           |
  |        22 |  78.0 | 1380  | 1026 |   10.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       | 1150  | 1022 |   10.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       | 1130  | 1018 |    9.28   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1170  | 1021 |   11.30   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       | 1080  | 1023 |   11.79   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1460  | 1017 |   10.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1360  | 1019 |   10.53   |⎬   0.495  |           |
  |        29 |       | 1360  | 1015 |   10.28   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1450  | 1014 |    9.87   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       |  985  | 1020 |    8.76   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       | 1200  | 1022 |    8.86   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1475  | 1016 |    8.88   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  77.9 | 1150  | 1023 |    7.73   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       | 1400  | 1018 |    9.57   |⎬   0.271  |           |
  |         6 |       | 1340  | 1020 |    7.64   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       | 1040  | 1021 |    8.73   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |  78.1 |  895  | 1025 |    6.39   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |       | 1480  | 1024 |    6.13   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       | 1125  | 1020 |    7.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       | 1290  | 1018 |    8.59   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  78.1 |  845  | 1023 |    8.57   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       | 1170  | 1022 |    8.92   |⎬   0.401  |           |
  |        14 |       | 1005  | 1020 |    6.09   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |  77.1 |  855  | 1023 |    7.75   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1210  | 1014 |    5.81   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1520  | 1014 |    7.93   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       | 1150  | 1023 |    8.35   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  77.2 | 1905  | 1015 |    9.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  77.2 | 1210  | 1020 |   10.67   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  76.3 |  815  | 1027 |    8.46   |⎬   0.461  |           |
  |        22 |  76.5 | 1020  | 1019 |    7.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  76.8 |  890  | 1023 |    5.98   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  77.1 | 1030  | 1022 |    6.61   |⎭          |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 28          | 1127  | 1021 |           |    0.531  |    1.98   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 28 to April |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |    9.30   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to May  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  24               |       |      |    8.45   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


CALLAHAN.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   15 |  92.2 | 1665  | 1023 |   19.48   |    1.008  |           |
  |        16 |  92.7 | 1800  | 1024 |   22.90   |    1.235  |           |
  |        17 |  92.7 | 1500  | 1028 |   18.81   |    0.996  |           |
  |        18 |  92.8 | 1490  | 1027 |   19.58   |    1.393  |           |
  |        19 |  93.6 | 1600  | 1029 |   22.18   |    1.070  |           |
  |        20 |  94.0 | 1610  | 1024 |   23.76   |    0.710  |           |
  |        21 |  94.0 | 1870  | 1025 |   24.68   |    1.040  |           |
  |        22 |  95.0 | 1730  | 1025 |   22.73   |    1.160  |           |
  |        23 |  95.0 | 2150  | 1025 |   31.99   |    1.470  |           |
  |        24 |  95.0 | 1450  |      |   21.84   |    0.952  |           |
  |        25 |  94.0 | 1220  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  94.0 | 1310  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  93.0 | 1310  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  94.0 | 1400  | 1027 |⎬  17.90   |    0.988  |    3.26   |
  |        29 |  94.0 | 1220  | 1027 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  93.0 | 1115  | 1030 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |  93.0 |  870  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  93.0 | 1170  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  93.0 | 1080  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  93.0 | 1350  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  92.0 | 1150  | 1028 |⎬  16.92   |    0.976  |    2.86   |
  |         5 |  92.0 |  950  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  92.0 | 1160  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  92.0 | 1100  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  91.0 |  850  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  91.0 |  995  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  90.0 |  670  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  89.5 |  615  | 1029 |⎬  12.28   |    0.780  |    2.14   |
  |        12 |  89.5 |  865  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  89.5 |  740  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  90.0 | 1020  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  90.0 |  980  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  89.5 |  715  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  89.0 |  565  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  89.0 |  535  | 1031 |⎬   9.83   |    0.755  |           |
  |        19 |  89.0 |  540  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  89.5 |  880  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  89.0 | 1170  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  89.0 |  820  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  88.0 |  610  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  87.0 |  520  | 1034 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  88.0 | 1160  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  87.5 |  385  | 1033 |⎬  10.26   |    0.641  |    1.52   |
  |        27 |  88.0 |  610  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  87.0 |  610  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  86.0 | 1095  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  86.0 |  780  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  86.0 |  725  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  85.0 |  630  | 1026 |⎬  11.07   |    0.796  |    1.74   |
  |         4 |  85.0 |  850  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  85.0 |  780  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  85.5 |  925  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  85.0 |  610  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  85.0 |  720  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  85.0 |  565  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  84.5 |  520  | 1032 |⎬   7.27   |    0.593  |           |
  |        11 |  84.0 |  570  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  84.0 |  510  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  84.0 |  450  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  83.5 |  470  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  84.0 | 1030  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  84.0 |  825  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  84.0 |  690  | 1026 |⎬   8.09   |    0.645  |           |
  |        18 |  84.0 | 1160  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  83.5 | 1820  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  84.0 |  695  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  83.5 |  760  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  83.0 |  610  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  83.0 | 1180  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  83.0 |  620  | 1032 |⎬   8.18   |    0.711  |           |
  |        25 |  83.0 |  560  | 1032 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  83.0 |  820  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  83.0 | 1000  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  82.0 |  485  | 1033 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  82.0 |  590  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  82.0 | 1300  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  82.5 | 1590  | 1020 |⎬   7.60   |    0.587  |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  82.0 | 1600  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  82.0 |  610  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  81.5 |  430  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  81.0 |  290  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |  82.0 |  550  | 1033 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  82.0 |  860  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  82.0 |  880  | 1021 |⎬   6.04   |    0.458  |    1.55   |
  |         8 |  82.0 |  820  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  82.0 |  720  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  82.0 |  490  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  82.0 |  540  | 1022 |⎫          |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |  82.0 |  680  | 1026 |⎭   4.98   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  82.0 |  670  | 1030 |    8.64   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |  82.0 |  755  | 1026 |   10.24   |⎬   0.528  |           |
  |        15 |  82.0 |  555  | 1026 |    5.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  82.0 | 1790  | 1017 |   14.18   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  83.0 |  870  | 1029 |    9.97   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |  83.0 |  990  | 1020 |    6.95   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  83.0 |  735  | 1022 |    7.32   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  83.0 |  930  | 1023 |    8.31   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  83.0 |  700  | 1032 |   10.16   |⎬   0.585  |           |
  |        22 |  83.0 | 1220  | 1024 |   11.13   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  83.0 |  860  | 1027 |    7.89   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  83.0 | 1140  | 1015 |    7.59   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |  83.0 |  520  | 1026 |    8.02   |⎫   0.544  |           |
  |        26 |  83.5 |  670  | 1028 |    8.08   |⎭          |           |
  |        27 |  83.0 | 1200  | 1019 |    7.92   |⎫          |           |
  |        28 |  83.0 | 1340  | 1020 |    8.84   |⎪          |           |
  |        29 |  83.5 |  900  | 1032 |   13.23   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |  83.5 | 1250  | 1022 |   13.50   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |  84.0 | 1160  | 1030 |   16.77   |⎪          |           |
  |         2 |  84.0 | 1080  | 1026 |   11.73   |⎪          |           |
  |         3 |  84.0 |  960  | 1029 |   16.13   |⎬   0.453  |           |
  |         4 |  83.5 | 1140  | 1035 |   19.36   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  83.5 | 1290  | 1031 |   18.35   |⎪          |           |
  |         6 |       |  780  | 1040 |   16.43   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |  83.0 |  870  | 1033 |   14.67   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |  83.0 |  930  | 1030 |   14.68   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |  83.0 | 1050  | 1022 |   11.86   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |  83.0 |  960  | 1021 |    8.18   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |  83.0 | 1020  | 1024 |    9.21   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  83.0 |  840  | 1024 |    9.08   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |  83.5 |  930  | 1025 |   10.05   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |  83.5 | 1200  | 1016 |    5.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |  83.5 | 1110  | 1018 |    8.99   |⎬   0.666  |           |
  |        16 |  83.5 | 1050  | 1018 |    9.64   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |  84.0 |  900  | 1024 |    8.37   |⎪          |           |
  |        18 |  83.5 | 1020  | 1018 |    8.20   |⎪          |           |
  |        19 |  84.0 |  945  | 1022 |    9.88   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  84.0 |  870  | 1023 |    8.72   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  83.0 | 1160  | 1014 |    7.24   |⎪          |           |
  |        22 |  82.0 |  420  | 1017 |    5.72   |⎭          |           |
  |        23 |  82.5 |  480  | 1026 |    7.78   |           |           |
  |        24 |  82.5 |  720  | 1024 |   10.07   |           |           |
  |        25 |  82.0 |  360  | 1030 |    5.64   |           |           |
  |        26 |  82.0 |  510  | 1029 |    7.68   |           |           |
  |        27 |  82.0 |  576  | 1028 |    6.60   |           |           |
  |        28 |  81.5 |  900  | 1016 |    6.59   |           |           |
  |        29 |  81.5 |  570  | 1023 |    6.60   |           |           |
  |        30 |  81.0 |  945  | 1022 |    6.47   |           |           |
  |        31 |  81.5 |  870  | 1026 |   10.44   |           |           |
  | June    1 |  81.5 |  840  | 1024 |    9.02   |           |           |
  |         2 |  81.5 |  810  | 1021 |    7.78   |           |           |
  |         3 |  82.0 |  540  | 1021 |    5.67   |           |           |
  |         4 |  82.0 |  450  | 1025 |    6.10   |           |           |
  |         5 |  82.0 |  480  | 1034 |    8.21   |           |           |
  |         6 |  82.5 |  480  | 1030 |    6.91   |           |           |
  |         7 |  82.5 |  570  | 1029 |    9.51   |           |           |
  |         8 |  83.0 |  650  | 1028 |   10.49   |           |           |
  |         9 |  83.0 |  570  | 1024 |    7.46   |           |           |
  |        10 |  83.0 |  620  | 1026 |    8.40   |           |           |
  |        11 |  83.0 |  690  | 1027 |    9.11   |           |           |
  |        12 |  83.0 |  590  | 1025 |    7.90   |           |           |
  |        13 |  83.0 |  840  | 1025 |   10.74   |           |           |
  |        14 |  83.5 |  780  | 1021 |    7.86   |           |           |
  |        15 |  83.0 |  650  | 1029 |   10.37   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 8           |  809  | 1026 |           |    0.624  |    1.74   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 8 to April  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |    8.56   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  15               |       |      |    9.52   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


DONAHUE.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   19 |  64.5 | 1500  | 1017 |   17.46   |    0.872  |           |
  |        20 |       | 1060  | 1027 |   14.88   |    0.756  |           |
  |        21 |  64.5 |  910  | 1033 |   14.41   |    0.525  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1150  | 1028 |   13.25   |    0.599  |           |
  |        23 |       |  810  | 1026 |   11.76   |    0.428  |           |
  |        24 |       |  790  | 1030 |   17.91   |    0.672  |           |
  |        25 |       |  820  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  960  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  800  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  870  | 1025 |⎬  10.67   |    0.498  |    1.90   |
  |        29 |       |  740  | 1025 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  63.5 |  655  | 1029 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |       |  790  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       |  570  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  730  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  760  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  680  | 1030 |⎬  10.34   |    0.458  |    1.81   |
  |         5 |       |  930  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  820  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  600  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  63.0 |  740  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  565  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  710  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  870  | 1025 |⎬   9.24   |    0.470  |    1.76   |
  |        12 |       |  705  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  740  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  595  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  860  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  63.2 |  830  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  780  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  735  | 1026 |⎬   7.47   |    0.465  |           |
  |        19 |       |  720  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  63.0 |  690  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  900  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        22 |  62.7 |  775  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  600  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  920  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  700  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1040  | 1023 |⎬   7.33   |    0.552  |    1.56   |
  |        27 |       |  600  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  710  | 1024 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  850  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |       |  910  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  62.0 |  740  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  710  | 1027 |⎬   7.79   |    0.448  |    1.91   |
  |         4 |       |  910  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  725  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  940  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  62.7 |  700  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  720  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1020  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  700  | 1026 |⎬   6.72   |    0.363  |           |
  |        11 |       | 1130  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  730  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  940  | 1018 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  930  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  62.7 |  985  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       |  875  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  515  | 1024 |⎬   6.33   |    0.504  |           |
  |        18 |       |  960  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       |  880  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  62.7 |  720  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  730  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       |  920  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  850  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |       |  720  | 1026 |⎬   5.61   |    0.363  |           |
  |        26 |  62.7 |  730  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  970  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  860  | 1021 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |       |  990  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  62.8 | 1250  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       |  990  | 1020 |⎬   7.17   |    0.408  |    1.90   |
  | Apr.    1 |       |  910  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  930  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  62.8 |  870  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |  62.8 | 1080  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  740  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  850  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  740  | 1028 |⎬   9.91   |    0.593  |    1.79   |
  |         8 |       | 1010  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  700  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  900  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1150  | 1020 |⎫   9.59   |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       | 1230  | 1021 |⎭          |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       | 1000  | 1021 |    7.38   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  710  | 1025 |    6.18   |⎬   0.343  |           |
  |        15 |       |  920  | 1022 |    8.78   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  63.0 |  700  | 1025 |    6.89   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       |  775  | 1024 |    8.28   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       | 1050  | 1020 |    7.69   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       |  910  | 1021 |    6.55   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1140  | 1020 |    6.64   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1055  | 1022 |    6.71   |⎬   0.399  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1020  | 1020 |    6.79   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  700  | 1025 |    6.34   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  825  | 1022 |    7.13   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  850  | 1022 |    6.27   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       | 1010  | 1021 |    7.09   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1150  | 1021 |    7.31   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       |  950  | 1021 |    6.38   |⎬   0.411  |           |
  |        29 |       |  950  | 1023 |    8.61   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  525  | 1028 |    6.96   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |  63.0 |  750  | 1022 |    7.65   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       |  775  | 1022 |    6.88   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       |  710  | 1022 |    6.01   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 1075  | 1021 |    7.22   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       |  700  | 1021 |    5.34   |⎬   0.120  |           |
  |         6 |       |  950  | 1024 |    7.41   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       |  950  | 1023 |    6.72   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       |  745  | 1024 |    5.90   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |       |  910  | 1020 |    6.61   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       |  720  | 1023 |    6.91   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |  63.0 |  750  | 1024 |    7.11   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  63.0 |  700  | 1022 |    6.51   |⎬   0.365  |           |
  |        13 |       |  710  | 1024 |    6.94   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  825  | 1025 |    8.68   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       | 1100  | 1020 |    7.79   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1000  | 1021 |    6.12   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1010  | 1020 |    5.94   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  950  | 1020 |    5.75   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       | 1025  | 1020 |    6.64   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1100  | 1020 |    8.45   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  900  | 1027 |    8.64   |⎬   0.343  |           |
  |        22 |       |  750  | 1025 |    8.53   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  750  | 1022 |    7.69   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  920  | 1023 |    7.34   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  750  | 1022 |   10.22   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  62.2 |  775  | 1021 |    6.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  880  | 1023 |    8.18   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       |  800  | 1023 |    7.06   |⎬   0.406  |           |
  |        29 |       |  790  | 1023 |    8.49   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  850  | 1022 |    7.91   |⎭          |           |
  |        31 |       | 1030  | 1021 |    7.60   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       |  800  | 1022 |    6.53   |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1000  | 1021 |    8.16   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  850  | 1022 |    7.40   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  |         5 |  62.8 |  650  | 1027 |    8.49   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  850  | 1023 |    7.33   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  910  | 1022 |    7.43   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  770  | 1022 |    8.37   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  910  | 1025 |    9.50   |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  850  | 1025 |    8.01   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  650  | 1025 |    7.72   |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  700  | 1025 |    8.36   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  930  | 1022 |    9.15   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  800  | 1026 |    8.45   |           |           |
  |        15 |  62.2 |  700  | 1027 |    7.90   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 14          |  857  | 1023 |           |    0.395  |    1.79   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 14 to Apr.  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |    7.55   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Apr. 13 to June  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  15               |       |      |    7.39   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


JACOBUS.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   15 |  57.3 |  630  | 1032 |   10.70   |    0.542  |           |
  |        16 |       |  810  | 1024 |   11.76   |    0.960  |           |
  |        17 |       |  880  | 1029 |   11.09   |    0.780  |           |
  |        18 |       |  780  | 1030 |   10.67   |    0.600  |           |
  |        19 |       |  810  | 1029 |   12.94   |    0.595  |           |
  |        20 |       |  670  | 1030 |   11.98   |    0.553  |           |
  |        21 |       |  730  | 1029 |   10.91   |    0.586  |           |
  |        22 |       |  990  | 1025 |   12.12   |    0.594  |           |
  |        23 |  58.7 |  825  | 1021 |    9.55   |    0.436  |           |
  |        24 |       |  680  | 1027 |    9.10   |    0.449  |           |
  |        25 |       | 1260  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  875  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  680  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  57.0 |  850  | 1022 |⎬   9.58   |    0.442  |    1.72   |
  |        29 |  58.0 |  760  | 1020 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  57.7 |  560  | 1029 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |       |  660  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       |  700  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.2 |  567  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  600  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  57.5 |  582  | 1026 |⎬   8.30   |    0.548  |    1.60   |
  |         5 |       |  740  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  56.8 |  470  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  405  | 1032 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  56.0 |  575  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  57.2 |  540  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  56.6 |  520  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  57.0 | 1000  | 1020 |⎬   7.73   |    0.460  |    1.74   |
  |        12 |       |  920  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  845  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  480  | 1028 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |       |  750  | 1025 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  56.8 |  810  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  56.4 |  760  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1100  | 1017 |⎬   6.27   |    0.399  |           |
  |        19 |  56.6 |  950  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  56.3 |  620  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  580  | 1027 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  57.3 |  770  | 1020 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  56.7 |  795  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  56.6 |  890  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  56.7 |  880  | 1022 |⎬   6.96   |    0.521  |    1.47   |
  |        26 |  56.8 |  690  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  885  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       |  970  | 1019 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  56.8 |  815  | 1024 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  57.0 |  760  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  57.0 |  690  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  56.8 | 1720  | 1012 |⎬   8.43   |    0.315  |    1.75   |
  |         4 |       | 1010  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  790  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  440  | 1033 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  56.6 |  970  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1130  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  440  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1480  | 1016 |⎬   7.88   |    0.535  |           |
  |        11 |       | 1300  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 1165  | 1013 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 1580  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  56.8 | 1200  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |       | 1330  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       | 1065  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  56.8 | 1170  | 1013 |⎬   5.98   |    0.454  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1030  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  56.8 | 1445  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  56.8 |  975  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |       |  870  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       | 1400  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  57.3 |  840  | 1020 |⎬   8.30   |    0.418  |           |
  |        24 |       | 1020  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       |  690  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1195  | 1017 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1170  | 1015 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  57.3 | 1030  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1225  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |       | 1175  | 1020 |⎬   9.59   |    0.471  |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       | 1330  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  775  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  615  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  695  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  830  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  762  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  57.0 | 1205  | 1026 |⎬   8.71   |    0.310  |    1.82   |
  |         8 |       | 1180  | 1015 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1035  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1300  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |       | 1045  | 1026 |⎫          |⎫          |           |
  |        12 |       |  610  | 1024 |⎭   7.88   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  410  | 1027 |    6.81   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  600  | 1025 |    6.84   |⎬   0.460  |           |
  |        15 |       | 1160  | 1017 |    8.49   |⎪          |           |
  |        16 |  56.8 |  820  | 1021 |    7.72   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       |  555  | 1029 |    6.96   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       |  610  | 1026 |    7.36   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       |  515  | 1028 |    6.67   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       |  710  | 1023 |    7.71   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  480  | 1026 |    6.94   |⎬   0.441  |           |
  |        22 |  55.0 |  565  | 1026 |    7.19   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  460  | 1031 |    7.16   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  550  | 1027 |    6.27   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  750  | 1020 |    6.30   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       | 1170  | 1017 |    7.93   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1010  | 1019 |    6.06   |⎬   0.507  |           |
  |        29 |       | 1110  | 1018 |    8.59   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1050  | 1020 |    8.44   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       |  715  | 1030 |    9.44   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |  56.6 | 1460  | 1014 |   10.50   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1185  | 1019 |    9.45   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 1270  | 1019 |   10.52   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |  56.6 | 1010  | 1019 |    9.70   |⎬   0.382  |           |
  |         6 |       | 1090  | 1021 |    9.94   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       | 1100  | 1016 |    8.65   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       |  765  | 1024 |    9.78   |⎭          |           |
  |        10 |       |  555  | 1026 |    7.96   |⎫          |           |
  |        11 |       |  640  | 1027 |    6.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |       | 1160  | 1016 |    7.03   |⎪          |           |
  |        13 |       |  665  | 1025 |    7.66   |⎬   0.296  |           |
  |        14 |       | 1240  | 1014 |    6.61   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |  56.6 |  595  | 1027 |    7.89   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1460  | 1012 |    7.45   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1620  | 1012 |    6.80   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 2010  | 1012 |    6.75   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       | 2050  | 1010 |    6.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 1180  | 1018 |    7.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       |  880  | 1020 |    7.07   |⎬   0.376  |           |
  |        22 |       |  730  | 1025 |    7.62   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  450  | 1029 |    6.48   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  540  | 1028 |    7.64   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  950  | 1017 |    7.53   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  56.8 |  555  | 1023 |    5.83   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1080  | 1014 |    7.25   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1020  | 1019 |    6.37   |⎬   0.303  |           |
  |        29 |       |  690  | 1022 |    6.34   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  590  | 1025 |    6.69   |⎪          |           |
  |        31 |       | 1290  | 1015 |    8.36   |⎭          |           |
  | June    1 |       | 1635  | 1010 |    7.85   |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1475  | 1012 |    8.23   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  400  | 1024 |    5.21   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  705  | 1019 |    6.73   |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1010  | 1013 |    6.30   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  600  | 1024 |    5.69   |           |           |
  |         7 |       |  925  | 1016 |    6.72   |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1015  | 1014 |    7.30   |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  925  | 1019 |    6.05   |           |           |
  |        10 |  57.0 | 1285  | 1012 |    5.25   |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  855  | 1018 |    8.36   |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  735  | 1019 |    6.97   |           |           |
  |        15 |  57.0 |  495  | 1028 |    8.32   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1           |  916  | 1021 |           |    0.423  |    1.67   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 1 to April  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |    7.74   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  15               |       |      |    7.43   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


SCHENKER.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   16 |  73.5 | 1140  | 1026 |   16.21   |    0.688  |           |
  |        17 |       | 2180  | 1020 |   18.44   |    0.990  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1155  | 1024 |   14.97   |    0.745  |           |
  |        20 |       | 1090  | 1027 |   19.82   |    0.797  |           |
  |        21 |       | 1515  | 1027 |   20.63   |    0.966  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1675  | 1019 |   15.38   |    0.653  |           |
  |        23 |  71.7 | 1100  | 1022 |   13.40   |    0.631  |           |
  |        24 |       | 1390  | 1021 |   14.18   |    0.719  |           |
  |        25 |       | 1410  | 1019 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  840  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |       |  925  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1140  | 1023 |⎬  13.23   |    0.693  |    2.03   |
  |        29 |  72.3 | 1025  | 1024 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |       | 1900  | 1015 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |       | 1105  |      |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |       | 1320  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  71.6 |  885  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1260  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1480  | 1020 |⎬  13.86   |    0.693  |    2.16   |
  |         5 |       |  970  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  71.4 | 1150  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1270  | 1022 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  71.5 | 1270  | 1022 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  71.2 |  940  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       |  930  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  71.4 |  845  | 1029 |⎬  12.84   |    0.654  |    2.00   |
  |        12 |       |  800  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       |  620  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |       |  890  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  70.9 | 1020  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |       | 1490  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1180  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1230  | 1022 |⎬   6.34   |    0.633  |           |
  |        19 |       |  950  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 1510  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |       | 1325  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        23 |       |  510  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        24 |  71.9 | 1140  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |       | 1730  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |       | 1145  | 1022 |⎬   8.85   |    0.624  |    2.17   |
  |        27 |       | 2015  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1150  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1230  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  71.8 | 1245  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       |  770  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  70.8 | 1480  | 1016 |⎬  11.49   |    0.799  |    2.43   |
  |         4 |       | 1325  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1960  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1230  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1900  | 1016 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  72.4 | 1760  | 1016 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  910  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 2050  | 1015 |⎬  10.11   |    0.734  |           |
  |        11 |  72.5 |  940  | 1020 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |       | 2200  | 1002 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |       | 2790  | 1011 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |       | 1880  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  72.3 | 1630  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |       | 1070  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 2040  | 1012 |⎬  11.08   |    0.797  |           |
  |        18 |       | 1655  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |       | 1485  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |       | 2550  | 1013 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  71.9 | 2000  | 1014 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |       | 2170  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |       | 1670  | 1014 |⎬  10.14   |    0.551  |           |
  |        24 |  72.3 | 2020  | 1015 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        26 |       |  875  |      |           |           |           |
  |        27 |       | 1520  | 1018 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        28 |       | 1675  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        29 |       | 1175  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |       | 1110  | 1021 |⎬  10.85   |    0.660  |           |
  |        31 |       | 2340  | 1012 |⎪          |           |           |
  | Apr.    1 |       | 1440  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1200  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         3 |       |       |      |⎫          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1110  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  785  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1130  | 1023 |⎬  11.64   |    0.782  |           |
  |         7 |  74.1 |  945  | 1027 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1050  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       |  925  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1555  | 1020 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  73.8 | 1440  | 1015 |    8.44   |⎫          |           |
  |        13 |       | 1250  | 1023 |   12.23   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       | 1330  | 1026 |   10.06   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       | 1880  | 1018 |   12.41   |⎬   0.620  |           |
  |        16 |       | 2440  | 1013 |   11.27   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1680  | 1018 |   10.78   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |  73.3 | 1640  | 1018 |   11.22   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       | 1420  | 1020 |   12.95   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  74.2 | 1440  | 1019 |    9.85   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1670  | 1018 |   10.22   |⎬   0.746  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1220  | 1019 |    9.52   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |  73.3 | 1640  | 1021 |    9.05   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       | 2200  | 1016 |    9.50   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1400  | 1020 |    9.07   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       | 1400  | 1020 |    8.15   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       | 1710  | 1017 |    9.13   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 2220  | 1011 |    9.59   |⎬   0.594  |           |
  |        29 |  73.4 | 1940  | 1015 |   11.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       |  980  | 1025 |   10.76   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       | 1625  | 1015 |   10.05   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       | 1950  | 1014 |    8.89   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1795  | 1014 |    8.62   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |       | 2400  | 1010 |    8.50   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       | 1895  | 1019 |   11.03   |⎬   0.298  |           |
  |         6 |  73.7 | 1920  | 1019 |   11.75   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       | 2300  | 1014 |   11.87   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       | 1380  | 1018 |   11.51   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |       | 2095  | 1014 |   11.46   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       | 1360  | 1016 |    9.96   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       | 1040  | 1022 |    8.74   |⎬   0.229  |           |
  |        12 |       | 1250  | 1024 |   11.02   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       | 1215  | 1020 |    8.68   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1450  | 1018 |    8.96   |           |           |
  |        17 |       | 1725  | 1014 |    8.29   |           |           |
  |        18 |       | 1420  | 1018 |    8.77   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  72.7 |  990  | 1020 |    8.73   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |       | 2390  | 1014 |   12.48   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  72.7 | 1000  | 1025 |    8.76   |⎬   0.427  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1570  | 1018 |    9.98   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       | 1780  | 1015 |   10.04   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       | 1210  | 1018 |    8.71   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1390  | 1016 |    9.09   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  72.5 | 1380  | 1015 |    9.11   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  72.1 | 1920  | 1018 |    9.56   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1870  | 1016 |   11.22   |⎬   0.842  |           |
  |        29 |       | 1635  | 1015 |    8.83   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1670  | 1017 |    8.52   |⎭          |           |
  |        31 |       | 2190  | 1013 |    9.46   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       | 1140  | 1016 |    6.02   |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1520  | 1018 |    8.94   |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1610  | 1017 |    8.50   |           |           |
  |         4 |  72.2 | 1380  | 1020 |    8.94   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  795  | 1022 |    8.11   |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1590  | 1018 |    9.83   |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 2000  | 1012 |    9.48   |           |           |
  |         8 |       | 1800  | 1016 |   12.10   |           |           |
  |         9 |  71.9 | 1500  | 1018 |    9.63   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 8           | 1500  | 1019 |           |    0.624  |    2.20   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Feb. 8 to April  |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  10               |       |      |   10.37   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 11 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  9                |       |      |    9.82   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


STAPLETON.

  +-----------+-------+--------------------------------------------------+
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |           |       |                     Urine.                       |
  |           |       |                                                  |
  |   Date.   | Body- +-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |           |weight.|Volume.|  Sp. | Nitrogen. | Uric Acid.|   P₂O₅.   |
  |           |       |  24   |  Gr. |           |           |           |
  |           |       |hours. |      |           |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |    1904   | kilos |  c.c. |      |   grams   |    gram   |   grams   |
  |           |       |       |      |           |           |           |
  | Jan.   15 |  77.2 | 1350  | 1026 |   16.20   |    0.941  |           |
  |        16 |  77.2 | 2200  | 1020 |   20.33   |    1.163  |           |
  |        17 |  77.2 | 2000  | 1025 |   21.00   |    1.095  |           |
  |        18 |  78.1 | 1650  | 1026 |   21.78   |    0.897  |           |
  |        19 |  77.1 | 1585  | 1029 |   20.64   |    1.139  |           |
  |        20 |  77.0 | 1390  | 1028 |   19.26   |    0.480  |           |
  |        21 |  77.1 | 1560  | 1026 |   20.31   |    0.971  |           |
  |        22 |  77.1 | 1620  | 1023 |   18.37   |    0.735  |           |
  |        23 |  78.0 | 1810  | 1025 |   21.72   |    0.624  |           |
  |        24 |  77.0 | 1430  | 1024 |   17.42   |    0.890  |           |
  |        25 |  76.0 |  990  | 1029 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        26 |  76.0 | 1280  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  77.0 |  885  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  77.1 | 1660  | 1021 |⎬  14.95   |    0.841  |    2.83   |
  |        29 |  76.1 | 1005  | 1029 |⎪   daily  |    daily  |    daily  |
  |        30 |  77.1 | 1310  | 1027 |⎪  average |   average |   average |
  |        31 |  76.1 |  800  | 1031 |⎭          |           |           |
  | Feb.    1 |  76.1 | 1090  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         2 |  76.1 | 1175  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  76.0 | 1120  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         4 |  76.0 |  950  | 1031 |⎬  13.48   |    0.743  |    2.34   |
  |         5 |  76.0 | 1150  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  76.0 | 1165  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |  76.0 |  770  | 1033 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         8 |  76.0 |  825  | 1030 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         9 |  76.0 | 1160  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  76.0 | 1140  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        11 |  76.0 | 1160  | 1023 |⎬  12.72   |    0.712  |    2.74   |
  |        12 |  76.0 |  970  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  76.0 | 1115  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        14 |  76.0 | 1360  | 1023 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        15 |  76.0 | 1040  | 1026 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        16 |  76.0 | 1020  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  76.0 | 1380  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        18 |  76.0 |  880  | 1029 |⎬  12.36   |    0.755  |           |
  |        19 |  76.0 |  945  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  76.0 | 1940  | 1017 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        21 |  76.0 | 2670  | 1016 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        22 |  76.0 | 1590  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        23 |  76.0 | 1870  |      |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  76.0 |  870  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        25 |  76.0 | 1275  | 1024 |⎬  13.03   |    0.967  |    2.56   |
  |        26 |  76.0 | 1140  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  76.0 | 1930  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        28 |  76.0 | 1120  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        29 |  76.0 | 1140  | 1028 |⎫          |           |           |
  | Mar.    1 |  76.0 | 1300  | 1022 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  76.0 | 1295  | 1023 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |  77.0 |  825  | 1030 |⎬  12.91   |    0.803  |    2.59   |
  |         4 |  76.0 | 1860  | 1021 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         5 |  76.0 | 1230  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |  76.0 | 1155  | 1029 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         7 |  76.0 |  830  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         8 |  76.0 |  860  | 1031 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |  76.0 |  940  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        10 |  76.0 |  550  | 1034 |⎬  11.02   |    0.707  |           |
  |        11 |  76.0 |  780  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        12 |  77.0 |  790  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        13 |  76.0 |  700  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        14 |  76.0 |  830  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        15 |  76.0 | 1650  | 1014 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        16 |  76.0 | 1120  | 1019 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        17 |  76.0 |  690  | 1027 |⎬  10.26   |    0.757  |           |
  |        18 |  76.0 | 1170  | 1024 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        19 |  76.0 | 2230  | 1010 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        20 |  77.2 | 1180  | 1025 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        21 |  76.0 |  540  | 1032 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        22 |  76.0 |  880  | 1030 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        23 |  76.0 |  990  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        24 |  76.0 | 1130  | 1024 |⎬  11.55   |    0.794  |           |
  |        25 |  76.0 | 1470  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        26 |  76.0 | 1280  | 1025 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        27 |  76.0 | 1240  | 1021 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        28 |  76.0 | 1020  | 1023 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        29 |  77.0 | 1440  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        30 |  76.0 | 1595  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |        31 |  76.0 | 1210  | 1017 |⎬  11.14   |    0.667  |           |
  | Apr.    1 |  76.0 | 1940  | 1018 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         2 |  76.0 | 1110  | 1028 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         3 |       | 1185  | 1026 |⎭          |           |           |
  |         4 |       | 1420  | 1027 |⎫          |           |           |
  |         5 |       | 1260  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         6 |       | 1095  | 1026 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1315  | 1030 |⎬  17.56   |    0.929  |    2.77   |
  |         8 |       | 1180  | 1029 |⎪          |           |           |
  |         9 |       | 1140  | 1030 |⎭          |           |           |
  |        11 |  75.0 | 1285  | 1031 |⎫          |           |           |
  |        12 |       |  940  | 1023 |⎭  16.43   |⎫          |           |
  |        13 |       |  750  | 1027 |    9.59   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  720  | 1026 |   10.45   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       |  910  | 1028 |   10.70   |⎬   0.550  |           |
  |        16 |       |  815  | 1021 |    6.32   |⎪          |           |
  |        17 |       | 1110  | 1012 |    5.33   |⎭          |           |
  |        18 |       |  820  | 1024 |    4.58   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |       |  750  | 1025 |    7.38   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  74.0 |  880  | 1024 |    7.13   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |       | 1005  | 1026 |    9.17   |⎬   0.418  |           |
  |        22 |       | 1090  | 1027 |    9.74   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       | 1085  | 1019 |    8.17   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |       |  990  | 1020 |    8.26   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       | 1150  | 1021 |    9.21   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |       |  980  | 1025 |    9.23   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |  75.0 | 1570  | 1019 |    8.29   |⎪          |           |
  |        28 |       | 1040  | 1025 |    9.05   |⎬   0.599  |           |
  |        29 |       | 1020  | 1022 |    9.98   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1000  | 1026 |    9.40   |⎪          |           |
  | May     1 |       | 1025  | 1025 |   10.56   |⎭          |           |
  |         2 |       | 1070  | 1027 |   11.25   |⎫          |           |
  |         3 |       | 1585  | 1018 |   10.37   |⎪          |           |
  |         4 |  75.0 | 1805  | 1023 |    8.70   |⎪          |           |
  |         5 |       | 1350  | 1022 |    9.88   |⎬   0.377  |           |
  |         6 |       |  920  | 1024 |    7.84   |⎪          |           |
  |         7 |       |  900  | 1025 |    9.23   |⎪          |           |
  |         8 |       |  930  | 1025 |   11.50   |⎭          |           |
  |         9 |       |  875  | 1027 |   11.81   |⎫          |           |
  |        10 |       | 1010  | 1022 |    8.85   |⎪          |           |
  |        11 |       | 1010  | 1023 |    9.26   |⎪          |           |
  |        12 |  74.0 |  600  | 1030 |    9.29   |⎬   0.625  |           |
  |        13 |       |  940  | 1028 |   10.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        14 |       |  975  | 1023 |    7.37   |⎪          |           |
  |        15 |       |  800  | 1025 |    6.63   |⎭          |           |
  |        16 |       | 1200  | 1019 |    8.14   |           |           |
  |        17 |       |  515  | 1030 |    6.58   |           |           |
  |        18 |       |  790  | 1029 |    9.67   |⎫          |           |
  |        19 |  74.1 |  745  | 1029 |    8.58   |⎪          |           |
  |        20 |  74.1 |  880  | 1022 |    9.51   |⎪          |           |
  |        21 |  74.1 | 1100  | 1027 |    9.64   |⎬   0.691  |           |
  |        22 |       |  890  | 1028 |    9.56   |⎪          |           |
  |        23 |       |  690  | 1020 |    8.03   |⎪          |           |
  |        24 |  76.0 |  905  | 1025 |    9.04   |⎭          |           |
  |        25 |       |  665  | 1031 |    8.46   |⎫          |           |
  |        26 |  74.5 |  630  | 1026 |    7.45   |⎪          |           |
  |        27 |       |  950  | 1024 |    8.83   |⎬   0.663  |    2.27   |
  |        28 |  73.0 |  850  | 1027 |   10.60   |⎪          |           |
  |        30 |       | 1060  | 1020 |   10.88   |⎭          |           |
  |        31 |       | 1640  | 1015 |    8.56   |           |           |
  | June    1 |       | 1230  | 1013 |    9.37   |           |           |
  |         2 |       | 1180  | 1019 |   10.34   |           |           |
  |         3 |       |  620  | 1024 |    6.96   |           |           |
  |         4 |       |  910  | 1020 |   11.47   |           |           |
  |         5 |       |  880  | 1019 |   11.09   |           |           |
  |         6 |       |  855  | 1025 |   11.14   |           |           |
  |         7 |       | 1250  | 1017 |    8.78   |           |           |
  |         8 |       |  885  | 1025 |   11.10   |           |           |
  |         9 |  74.0 |  730  | 1020 |    6.35   |           |           |
  |        10 |       | 1540  | 1017 |    8.87   |           |           |
  |        11 |       |  750  | 1015 |    5.85   |           |           |
  |        12 |  73.4 | 1265  | 1015 |    9.71   |           |           |
  +-----------+-------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Jan. 25          | 1094  | 1024 |           |    0.699  |    2.64   |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  Jan. 25 to April |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |   13.12   |           |           |
  |Daily average from |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  April 13 to June |       |      |           |           |           |
  |  12               |       |      |    9.00   |           |           |
  +-------------------+-------+------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

It is plain from the foregoing results, that all the men of this group,
like the members of the professional group, experienced no difficulty in
reducing in large measure their rate of proteid metabolism. The intake
of proteid food was steadily diminished, with a corresponding diminution
in the extent of nitrogen metabolism. Take as an illustration the
average daily output of nitrogen from April 13 to June 15, a period of
sixty-three consecutive days:


AVERAGE DAILY EXCRETION OF METABOLIZED NITROGEN FOR THE LAST TWO MONTHS
OF THE EXPERIMENT.

                     grams
  G. W. Anderson      8.81     ⎫
  W. L. Anderson     10.07     ⎪
  H. S. Bellis        8.45[42] ⎪ Grand average for this
  W. H. Callahan      9.52     ⎬  period = 8.81 grams of
  M. Donahue          7.39     ⎪  nitrogen per day.
  C. S. Jacobus       7.43     ⎪
  H. R. Schenker      9.82     ⎪
  John Stapleton      9.00     ⎭

An excretion of 8.81 grams of nitrogen through the kidneys corresponds
to the metabolism of 55 grams of proteid matter. Compare this average
amount of proteid matter metabolized each day with the figures obtained
during the preliminary period of ten days, when the men were living on
their ordinary diet. Then, many of the men were excreting nitrogen at the
rate of 17 to 22 grams per day. In a general way, we may safely say that
all these men during the last two months of the experiment were living on
about one-half the proteid food they were formerly accustomed to take.

Further, the average daily excretion of nitrogen for the preceding
seventy-three days, _i. e._, from February 1 to April 13, was in
most instances nearly, if not quite, as low as during the last two
months of the experiment, so that we are certainly justified in the
statement that these men—trained athletes, doing athletic work more
or less strenuous—were able to practise during this long period marked
physiological economy in the use of proteid food, equal approximately at
least to a saving of full fifty per cent in proteid matter.

The individual tables must be carefully studied, however, in order to
trace out the changes in detail in the rate of nitrogen metabolism, and
in so doing much information will be obtained regarding modification
in the excretion of uric acid, a matter to be discussed in another
connection, later on. Further, it is interesting to note in the tables
the changes in body-weight of the men. Some of the men, like Dr.
Callahan, who were abundantly supplied with adipose tissue, lost very
considerably in body-weight, but eventually came to a standstill, with
establishment of body equilibrium, under the changed dietary habits. Some
of the men reached this condition of equilibrium much more quickly than
others. Dr. Callahan who suffered a large loss in body-weight—to his
great gain, as he expressed it—dropped from 92.2 kilos to 83 kilos in two
months, but from March 22 to June 15 his body-weight, while naturally
showing fluctuation, did not fall again permanently.

What now was the amount of metabolized nitrogen per kilo of body-weight
in these men toward the close of the experiment? Taking the average
daily nitrogen excretion for the period from April 13 to June 15, and
the body-weights of the men at this same period, as indicated in the
accompanying table, we have the following figures:

                              Average daily   Metabolized Nitrogen
                Body-weight.   Nitrogen         per kilo of
                               excreted.        body-weight.

                   kilos        grams             gram

  Bellis            78           8.45             0.108
  Callahan          83           9.52             0.114
  Donahue           62           7.39             0.119
  Stapleton         75           9.00             0.120
  Anderson, G. W.   71           8.81             0.124
  Jacobus           56           7.43             0.132
  Schenker          73           9.82             0.134
  Anderson, W. L.   61          10.07             0.165

These figures, with one exception, show as low a proteid metabolism per
kilo of body-weight as was obtained with the soldiers on a prescribed
diet, yet these men were athletes accustomed to vigorous muscular
exercise, and likewise accustomed to the eating of relatively large
amounts of proteid food. Theoretically, it might not be expected that
these men would drop to as low a level as men who were not addicted
to the consumption of excessive amounts of proteid foods, yet for two
months, and practically for a period of four months, these University
students easily maintained themselves at this lower level of nitrogen
metabolism.

       *       *       *       *       *

From April 26 to June 13, at the request of the students themselves,
the daily diet was prescribed; not, however, as regards the quantity of
food to be eaten, but merely as to its character. The men ate at the
University Dining Hall, and it was a simple matter to have their table
supplied with a special dietary. The following dietary was therefore
prepared for their use.

It is not to be understood that the men took all that the daily list
provided, but they made their selections from the menu, and in quantity
took what they deemed necessary, or what satisfied their appetites. It
may be added that the men were all well content with the variety provided
and expressed themselves, many times, as better pleased with a simple
dietary of this kind than with the heavier proteid foods of earlier days.
It should be added that Dr. Callahan was compelled to be absent from New
Haven during a large portion of the period covered by this dietary, hence
his nitrogen excretions do not correspond in quantity with the nitrogen
of the above rations.


_Tuesday, April 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled hominy with sugar and cream, coffee, rolls,
butter.

Lunch.—Spaghetti, stewed tomatoes, potatoes, boiled onions, bread,
butter, coffee, fried hominy with syrup.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, fried bacon with French fried potato, spinach,
bread, butter, stewed prunes, lettuce-celery-apple salad, cream puffs,
coffee.

[Illustration: STAPLETON

_Photograph taken in the middle of the experiment, in April._]


_Wednesday, April 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, farina with cream, coffee, rolls, butter, baked potato.

Lunch.—Fried oysters, mashed potato, bread, butter, coffee, string beans,
sliced banana with cream.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup, codfish-cakes, boiled potato, boiled lima
beans, lettuce-orange salad, ice cream, coffee.


_Thursday, April 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, coffee, rolls, cream, butter, fried hominy and syrup.

Lunch.—Fried sweet potato, cold tongue, baked potato, bread, butter,
coffee, baked apple with cream.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup, Hamburg steak made with plenty of bread, etc.,
Lyonnaise potato, baked potato, spinach, pie, coffee.


_Friday, April 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, Indian-meal, boiled, with sugar and cream, baked
potato, rolls, coffee.

Lunch.—Clam chowder with crackers, farina croquettes, stewed tomato,
griddle cakes with syrup, coffee, bread, butter.

Dinner.—Soup, fish, mashed potato, radishes, string beans, cranberry
sauce, bread, butter, lettuce salad, lemon pie, coffee.


_Saturday, April 30, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, fried Indian-meal, syrup, baked potato, coffee, rolls.

Lunch.—Tomato purée, baked macaroni, baked potato, sliced ham, baked
apple and cream, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Soup, small sausage fried, mashed potato, boiled sweet potato,
spinach, stewed tomato, strawberry short cake, coffee.


_Sunday, May 1, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, boiled rice, sugar, cream, coffee, rolls, butter.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup, stewed chicken, cranberry sauce, boiled potato,
boiled onion, stewed corn, water ice, coffee, bread, butter.

Supper.—French fried potato, bacon, Waldorf-salad, bread, butter, pie.


_Monday, May 2, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, malto-rice, cream, coffee, rolls.

Lunch.—Baked beans, catsup, baked potato, stewed prunes, apple pudding.

Dinner.—Barley soup, string beans, boiled onion, mashed potato, fried
bacon, cranberry sauce, bread, butter, sliced banana, cream, coffee.


_Tuesday, May 3, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, boiled Indian-meal, sugar, cream, baked potato, butter,
rolls, coffee.

Lunch.—Baked macaroni, French fried potato, boiled spinach, stewed
prunes, coffee, bread, butter, fried rice with syrup.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, fried sausage with Lyonnaise potato, boiled sweet
potato, butter, lettuce-orange salad, baked apple with cream, coffee.


_Wednesday May 4, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, farina with sugar and cream, baked potato, coffee,
rolls, butter.

Lunch.—One egg on toast, string beans, boiled potato, bread, butter,
coffee, pie.

Dinner.—Tomato purée, codfish-cakes, baked potato, boiled lima beans,
lettuce-apple salad, bread, butter, cream puffs, coffee.


_Thursday, May 5, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, boiled hominy, sugar, cream, coffee, rolls, butter.

Lunch.—Cold ham, fried sweet potato, baked potato, cream, butter, coffee,
cabinet pudding, vanilla sauce.

Dinner.—Scotch broth, one lamb chop, mashed potato, fried sweet potato,
spinach, bread and butter, baked apple and cream, coffee.


_Friday, May 6, 1904._

Breakfast.—One apple, fried hominy with syrup, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Clam chowder with crackers, potato croquettes, sliced tomatoes,
bread, butter, griddle cakes and syrup, coffee.

Dinner.—Bean soup aux croutons, boiled halibut, mashed potato, boiled
onions with cream, radishes, cranberry sauce, lettuce salad, bread,
butter, coffee, one orange.


_Saturday, May 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled rice, sugar, cream, baked potato, coffee,
rolls, butter.

Lunch.—Consommé, spaghetti à l’italienne, boiled sweet potato, bread,
butter, cakes, preserves, coffee.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, roast beef, mashed potato, boiled spinach, boiled
sweet potato, bread and butter, strawberries and cream, coffee.


_Sunday, May 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, fried rice, syrup, coffee, corn bread and butter,
baked potato.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup, stewed chicken, cranberry sauce, string beans,
boiled or mashed potato, water ice, bread and butter, cakes, coffee.

Supper.—French fried potato, bacon, lettuce-orange salad, bread and
butter, cake, preserves, and coffee.


_Monday, May 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, boiled Indian-meal, sugar and cream, coffee, rolls,
butter.

Lunch.—Calf’s liver, baked potato, stewed prunes, boiled onion, bread and
butter, coffee, apple pudding.

Dinner.—Consommé, baked macaroni, fried sweet potato, stewed tomato,
preserves, lettuce, bread, butter, cakes, coffee.


_Tuesday, May 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, farina, milk, sugar, baked potato, coffee, bread,
butter.

Lunch.—Egg omelette with jelly, fried bacon, mashed potato, spinach,
apple pudding, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Small fried sausage, boiled potato, rice custard, lettuce-orange
salad, bread, butter, coffee, baked apples with cream.


_Wednesday, May 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana and cream, fried hominy, syrup, baked potato, coffee,
bread, butter.

Lunch.—Cream of tomato soup, mashed potato, lima beans, bread, butter,
prune soufflé, coffee.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak made with much bread, boiled sweet potato, boiled
onions, lettuce, lemon pie, bread, butter, coffee.


_Thursday, May 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, baked potato, boiled Indian-meal, sugar, cream, coffee,
rolls, butter.

Lunch.—Consommé, French fried potato, one egg on toast, rice pudding,
apple sauce, coffee, bread, butter.

Dinner.—One chop, boiled or mashed potato, string beans, apple-lettuce
salad, lemon pie, bread, butter, coffee.


_Friday, May 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana and cream, fried rice with syrup, rolls, butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Clam chowder, boiled potato, boiled onions, fried bacon, carrots,
apple dumpling, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup (thick), frizzled beef, fried sweet potato,
spinach, cranberry tart, bread, butter, coffee, cakes.


_Saturday, May 14, 1904._

Breakfast.—Baked apple and cream, boiled hominy, with sugar and cream,
baked potato, coffee, rolls, butter.

Lunch.—Cream of celery soup, farina croquettes, with tomato sauce, stewed
corn, mashed potato, bread, butter, coffee, fruit.

Dinner.—Fish, boiled potato, boiled onions, bread pudding, preserves,
lettuce-tomato salad, small cakes, bread, butter, coffee.


_Sunday, May 15, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fruit, baked potato, boiled oatmeal with sugar and cream,
coffee, rolls, butter.

Lunch.—Consommé with croutons, fried rice with syrup, French fried
potato, strawberry short-cake with whipped cream, bread, coffee.

Dinner.—Stewed chicken, fried sweet potato, cranberry sauce, celery,
string beans, bread, butter, coffee, ice cream, cakes.


_Monday, May 16, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, griddle cakes and syrup, baked potato, coffee, rolls,
butter.

Lunch.—Fried bacon, mashed potato, spinach, bread, butter, rice
croquettes with preserves, apple pie, coffee.

Dinner.—Consommé, one lamb chop, mashed potato, string beans, boiled
onions, orange-lettuce salad, bread, butter, tapioca pudding, coffee.


_Tuesday, May 17, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, farina, cream, sugar, baked potato, rolls, butter,
coffee.

Lunch.—Vegetable soup, French fried potato, one egg on toast, rice
pudding, apple sauce, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Small fried sausage, boiled potato, lima beans, lettuce salad,
bread, butter, baked apples with cream, rice custard, coffee.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced banana, fried rice, syrup, baked potato, bread, butter,
coffee.

Lunch.—Cream of celery soup, farina croquettes, tomato sauce, fried sweet
potato, string beans, bread, butter, prune soufflé, coffee.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, Hamburg steak made with much bread, mashed
potato, spinach, bread, butter, lemon pie, coffee.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced banana, boiled hominy, cream, sugar, baked potato,
bread, butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Egg omelette, jelly, French fried potato, boiled onions, fried
hominy, syrup, bread, butter, apple pudding, coffee.

Dinner.—Tomato purée, baked macaroni, fried bacon, fried sweet potato,
spinach, bread, butter, Indian-meal pudding, coffee.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced orange, fried hominy, syrup, baked potato, bread,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Fish cakes, boiled sweet potato, mashed potato, lima beans
(boiled), bread, butter, bread pudding, coffee.

Dinner.—Consommé, boiled halibut, mashed potato, string beans, bread,
butter, rice croquettes, cranberry jam, coffee.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced banana, cream, sugar, boiled Indian-meal, baked potato,
bread, butter, coffee.

Lunch.—One lamb chop, potato croquettes, fried Indian-meal, syrup, stewed
tomatoes, bread, butter, coffee, water ice.

Dinner.—Bean purée, scrambled egg, bacon, French fried potato,
lettuce-orange salad, farina pudding, prunes, bread, butter, coffee.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced orange, sugar, boiled oatmeal, cream, baked potato,
bread, butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Boiled macaroni, fried rice, syrup, mashed potato, boiled onions,
bread, butter, ice cream, cake, coffee.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup, stewed chicken, French fried potato, mashed
potato, spinach, bread, butter, cranberry sauce, strawberry short-cake,
cream, coffee.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Sliced banana, griddle cakes, syrup, baked potato, bread,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—One egg on toast, consommé, French fried potato, lettuce, rice
croquettes, syrup, apple sauce, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup, baked macaroni, fried bacon, potato croquettes,
string beans, bread, butter, water ice, coffee.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled rice, cream, sugar, baked potato, bread,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Cream of celery soup, farina croquettes, tomato sauce, boiled
onions, mashed potato, bread, butter, stewed prunes, coffee.

Dinner.—Tomato purée, Hamburg steak made with much bread, French fried
potato, spinach, farina croquettes, bread, butter, lemon pie, coffee.


_Wednesday, May 25, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled hominy, cream, sugar, baked potato, bread,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Small fried sausage, boiled potato, lettuce salad, fried hominy,
syrup, bread, butter, apple sauce, coffee.

Dinner.—Consommé, scrambled eggs, French fried potato, lettuce-orange
salad, lima beans, bread, butter, bread pudding, coffee.


_Thursday, May 26, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled oatmeal, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—One egg on toast, spinach, mashed potato, apple sauce, bread,
butter, rice pudding, coffee.

Dinner.—Tomato purée, boiled macaroni, boiled onions, French fried
potato, lettuce, bread, butter, tapioca pudding, coffee.


_Friday, May 27, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange, boiled Indian-meal, sugar, cream, rolls, coffee.

Lunch.—Clam chowder, potato croquettes, lima beans, bread, butter,
strawberries, cream, coffee.

Dinner.—Bean soup, boiled halibut, mashed potato, string beans, rice
croquettes, cranberry jam, bread, butter, water ice, coffee.


_Saturday, May 28, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, breakfast flakes, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—One boiled egg, French fried potato, stewed tomatoes, fried
Indian-meal, syrup, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, baked beans, Boston brown bread, lettuce-orange
salad, stewed prunes, bread, butter, ice cream, coffee.


_Sunday, May 29, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange, boiled oatmeal, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Boiled spaghetti, mashed potato, boiled onions, fried rice, syrup,
bread, butter, strawberries, cake, coffee.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup, stewed chicken, boiled potato, spinach,
bread, butter, cranberry sauce, custard pie, coffee.


_Monday, May 30, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled rice, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Consommé, French fried potato, bacon, lettuce-orange salad, wheat
griddle cakes, syrup, bread, butter, coffee.

Dinner.—Barley broth, one lamb chop, mashed potato, fried sweet potato,
apple sauce, bread, butter, bread pudding, coffee.


_Tuesday, June 7, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled rice, cream, sugar, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Vegetable soup, French fried potato, one egg on toast, apple
sauce, rice pudding, bread, butter, tea.

Dinner.—One small fried sausage, boiled potato, lima beans,
lettuce-orange salad, bread, butter, ice cream, cake, coffee.


_Wednesday, June 8, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, breakfast flakes, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Cream of celery soup, potato croquettes, string beans, two slices
bacon, bread, butter, bread pudding, coffee.

Dinner.—Split-pea soup, boiled halibut, mashed potato, asparagus, bread,
butter, cream pie, coffee.


_Thursday, June 9, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange, boiled hominy, cream, sugar, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Egg omelette, jelly, French fried potato, boiled onions, bread,
butter, wheat griddle cakes, syrup, coffee.

Dinner.—Tomato purée, baked macaroni, dried beef stewed with milk, boiled
potato, spinach, bread, butter, Indian-meal pudding, coffee.


_Friday, June 10, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, fried hominy, syrup, rolls, butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Clam chowder, mashed potato, boiled lima beans, bread, butter,
tapioca pudding, coffee.

Dinner.—Consommé, bluefish (broiled), Lyonnaise potato, asparagus, bread,
butter, cranberry jam, lemon pie, coffee.


_Saturday, June 11, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange, boiled Indian-meal, cream, sugar, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Barley broth, corn fritters, mashed potato, two slices bacon,
bread, butter, stewed tomatoes, strawberries, cream, coffee.

Dinner.—Bean purée, scrambled egg, rice croquettes, French fried potato,
lettuce-orange salad, stewed prunes, bread, butter, farina pudding,
coffee.


_Sunday, June 12, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana, boiled oatmeal, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Boiled macaroni, string beans, mashed potato, farina croquettes,
water ice, cake, coffee.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup, stewed chicken, French fried potato,
lettuce salad, bread, butter, strawberry short-cake, cream, coffee.


_Monday, June 13, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange, breakfast flakes, sugar, cream, baked potato, rolls,
butter, coffee.

Lunch.—Vegetable soup, one egg on toast, fried potatoes, apple sauce,
rice croquettes, bread, butter, cottage pudding, tea.

Dinner.—Clam broth, beef stew, with potatoes, carrots and onions, boiled
potatoes, bread, butter, apple-lettuce salad, apple pie, cheese, coffee.


NITROGEN BALANCE.

We may now consider whether these men, who had so greatly reduced the
extent of their proteid metabolism, and who had apparently attained a
condition of body equilibrium, were truly in nitrogenous equilibrium,
or free from any daily loss of nitrogen. To test this point, a careful
and exact comparison of the nitrogen intake and output was made for
a period of seven days, commencing on May 18. This was not easy to
accomplish, as the men were still allowed freedom in the quantity of
food eaten, and also in the choice of food, within the limits of the
menu provided, so that a large number of food analyses had to be made.
A greater difficulty, however, in obtaining proof of equilibrium lay in
the laudable ambition of the men to make a good showing,—for they had all
become interested in the main problem, and had acquired great faith in
the efficiency of a low proteid ration,—which led them to great caution
in the matter of eating during the balance trial, thereby running the
risk of diminishing in too great degree the fuel value of the food.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following data obtained with Donahue are self-explanatory. The
figures showing the quantities of food at each meal are instructive, as
indicating the general makeup of the daily dietary, both as to quality
and quantity.


DONAHUE.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 141 grams, bread 60 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 80 grams, sugar 31 grams.

Lunch.—Soup 247 grams, string beans 65 grams, bread 21 grams, butter 30
grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 21 grams, fried potato 222 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 150 grams, bread 45 grams, butter 10 grams, mashed
potato 150 grams, spinach 200 grams, apple pie 103 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 75 grams, sugar 28 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       141     ×     0.23     =    0.324 grams.
  Butter        15 + 30 + 10 =  55     ×     0.15     =    0.083
  Sugar         31 + 21 + 28 =  80     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream              80 + 75 = 155     ×     0.46     =    0.713
  Bread                         60     ×     1.66     =    0.996
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Bread                         21     ×     1.60     =    0.336
  Soup                         247     ×     0.41     =    1.013
  Fried potato                 222     ×     0.32     =    0.710
  String beans                  65     ×     0.34     =    0.221
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Bread                         45     ×     1.80     =    0.810
  Spinach                      200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Potato                       150     ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Pie                          103     ×     0.43     =    0.443
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.119 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.750

  Fuel value of the food      2676 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 98 grams, boiled hominy 150 grams, bread 60 grams,
butter 10 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 125 grams, sugar 45 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 61 grams, butter 19 grams, potato 100 grams, fried hominy
114 grams, syrup 48 grams, boiled onion 139 grams, coffee 150 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato purée 200 grams, bread 40 grams, fried sweet potato 77
grams, macaroni 100 grams, spinach 100 grams, bacon 21 grams, bread
pudding 100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 7 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        98     ×     0.23     =    0.225 grams.
  Bread                         60     ×     1.54     =    0.924
  Butter             10 + 19 =  29     ×     0.15     =    0.044
  Sugar          46 + 21 + 7 =  73     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee           150 + 150 = 300     ×     0.06     =    0.180
  Cream             125 + 50 = 175     ×     0.47     =    0.823
  Hominy                       150     ×     0.20     =    0.300
  Bread                         61     ×     1.60     =    0.976
  Potato                       100     ×     0.49     =    0.490
  Fried hominy                 114     ×     0.67     =    0.764
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Onion                        139     ×     0.27     =    0.375
  Bread                         40     ×     1.74     =    0.696
  Tomato purée                 200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Fried sweet potato            77     ×     0.38     =    0.293
  Macaroni                     100     ×     0.93     =    0.930
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.56     =    0.560
  Bacon                         21     ×     3.00     =    0.630
  Pudding                      100     ×     0.20     =    0.200
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.482 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.640

  Fuel value of the food      2753 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 70 grams, baked potato 87 grams, roll 59 grams, butter
32 grams, sugar 7 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 67 grams, butter 15 grams, fish cake 88 grams, potato 150
grams, bread pudding 150 grams, cream 50 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 150 grams, fish 70 grams, string beans 70 grams, potato
155 grams, cranberry sauce 102 grams, bread 32 grams, coffee 100 grams,
sugar 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                        70     ×     0.20     =    0.140 grams.
  Butter             32 + 15 =  47     ×     0.15     =    0.071
  Roll                          59     ×     1.72     =    1.015
  Sugar               7 + 14 =  21     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Potato                        87     ×     0.40     =    0.348
  Bread                         67     ×     1.71     =    1.146
  Fish-cake                     88     ×     1.22     =    1.074
  Potato                       150     ×     0.30     =    0.450
  Bread pudding                150     ×     0.99     =    1.485
  Cream                         50     ×     0.44     =    0.220
  Potato                       155     ×     0.34     =    0.527
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.59     =    0.885
  Bread                         32     ×     1.97     =    0.630
  String beans                  70     ×     0.36     =    0.252
  Cranberry sauce              102     ×     0.03     =    0.031
  Fish                          70     ×     3.18     =    2.226
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.560 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.450

  Fuel value of the food      1911 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 106 grams, boiled Indian-meal 150 grams, sugar 21
grams, cream 50 grams, bread 59 grams, butter 16 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 55 grams, butter 13 grams, lamb chop 37 grams, potato
croquette 105 grams, tomato 216 grams, sugar 14 grams, water ice 143
grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup 100 grams, fried egg 22 grams, bacon 10 grams, lettuce
salad 63 grams, fried potato 100 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 50 grams,
sugar 21 grams, stewed prunes 247 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         59     ×     1.65     =    0.974 grams.
  Butter             16 + 13 =  29     ×     0.15     =    0.044
  Banana                       106     ×     0.23     =    0.244
  Boiled Indian-meal           150     ×     0.17     =    0.255
  Sugar         21 + 14 + 21 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream              50 + 50 = 100     ×     0.43     =    0.430
  Bread                         55     ×     1.82     =    1.001
  Potato croquette             105     ×     0.71     =    0.746
  Lamb chop                     37     ×     4.63     =    1.713
  Tomato                       216     ×     0.17     =    0.367
  Water ice                    143     ×     0.012    =    0.017
  Prunes                       247     ×     0.16     =    0.395
  Bean soup                    100     ×     1.21     =    1.210
  Fried potato                 100     ×     0.60     =    0.600
  Egg                           22     ×     2.27     =    0.499
  Bacon                         10     ×     3.05     =    0.305
  Salad                         63     ×     0.21     =    0.132
  Coffee                       100     ×     0.06     =    0.060
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.992 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.640

  Fuel value of the food      2294 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 60 grams, oatmeal 207 grams, roll 46 grams, butter 14
grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 150 grams, sugar 35 grams.

Lunch.—Potato 150 grams, boiled onions 145 grams, macaroni 130 grams,
fried rice 138 grams, syrup 48 grams, ice cream 160 grams, cake 26 grams.

Dinner.—Celery soup 150 grams, spinach 100 grams, mashed potato 100
grams, bread 19 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 7 grams,
strawberry short-cake 169 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                        60     ×     0.20     =    0.120 grams.
  Oatmeal                      207     ×     0.43     =    0.890
  Sugar                35 + 7 = 42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream             150 + 50 = 200     ×     0.45     =    0.900
  Roll                          46     ×     1.67     =    0.768
  Coffee           150 + 100 = 250     ×     0.06     =    0.150
  Butter                        14     ×     0.15     =    0.021
  Potato                       150     ×     0.30     =    0.450
  Onions                       145     ×     0.25     =    0.363
  Macaroni                     130     ×     0.46     =    0.598
  Fried rice                   138     ×     0.75     =    1.035
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Ice cream                    160     ×     0.53     =    0.848
  Cake                          26     ×     1.20     =    0.312
  Bread                         19     ×     1.57     =    0.298
  Celery soup                  150     ×     0.33     =    0.495
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.55     =    0.550
  Short-cake                   169     ×     0.50     =    0.845
  Mashed potato                100     ×     0.37     =    0.370
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.025 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.530

  Fuel value of the food      2781 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 201 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 28 grams, griddle
cakes 103 grams, syrup 48 grams.

Lunch.—Consommé 150 grams, rice croquette 140 grams, syrup 48 grams,
fried potato 100 grams, bread 36 grams, butter 15 grams, apple sauce 90
grams, coffee 75 grams, sugar 7 grams.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup 100 grams, potato croquette 50 grams, string beans
120 grams, macaroni 104 grams, bacon 20 grams, bread 26 grams, water ice
184 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Griddle cakes                103     ×     0.91     =    0.937 grams.
  Banana                       201     ×     0.23     =    0.462
  Cream                        100     ×     0.45     =    0.450
  Sugar               28 + 7 =  35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.65     =    0.975
  Rice croquette               140     ×     0.61     =    0.854
  Butter                        15     ×     0.15     =    0.023
  Bread                         36     ×     1.75     =    0.630
  Apple sauce                   90     ×     0.020    =    0.018
  Fried potato                 100     ×     0.60     =    0.600
  Coffee                        75     ×     0.06     =    0.045
  Vegetable soup               100     ×     0.70     =    0.700
  Bread                         26     ×     1.75     =    0.455
  Macaroni                     104     ×     0.87     =    0.905
  String beans                 120     ×     0.22     =    0.264
  Water ice                    184     ×     0.006    =    0.011
  Bacon                         20     ×     3.28     =    0.656
  Potato croquette              50     ×     0.77     =    0.385
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.393 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.690

  Fuel value of the food      2319 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 80 grams, fried rice 186 grams, syrup 72 grams, coffee
100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Celery soup 125 grams, bread 34 grams, butter 19 grams, boiled
onion 127 grams, potato 150 grams, tomato sauce 50 grams, stewed prunes
189 grams, cream 50 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 125 grams, bread 20.5 grams, fried potato 100 grams,
spinach 130 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams,
cream pie 158 grams.

Evening.—Ginger ale 250 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Rice                         186     ×     0.36     =    0.670 grams.
  Syrup                         72     ×     0.024    =    0.017
  Coffee           100 + 100 = 200     ×     0.06     =    0.120
  Sugar              21 + 14 =  35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Orange                        80     ×     0.20     =    0.160
  Cream         50 + 50 + 50 = 150     ×     0.45     =    0.675
  Bread                         34     ×     1.66     =    0.564
  Butter                        19     ×     0.15     =    0.029
  Celery soup                  125     ×     0.48     =    0.600
  Onion                        127     ×     0.30     =    0.381
  Prunes                       189     ×     0.17     =    0.321
  Potato                       150     ×     0.26     =    0.390
  Tomato sauce                  50     ×     0.23     =    0.115
  Tomato soup                  125     ×     0.19     =    0.238
  Bread                         20.5   ×     1.82     =    0.373
  Fried potato                 100     ×     0.46     =    0.460
  Spinach                      130     ×     0.54     =    0.702
  Cream pie                    158     ×     0.93     =    1.469
  Ginger ale                   250     ×     0.00     =    0.000
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.284 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.340

  Fuel value of the food      2422 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Donahue._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces[43] (dry).

  May 18      8.119 grams.    5.75 grams.
      19      9.482           6.64           15 grams.
      20     10.560           8.45
      21      8.992           8.64
      22      9.025           8.53
      23      8.393           7.69           89
      24      7.284           7.34           24
             ------          ------         ------
                                            128     grams contain 6.40% N.
             61.855          53.04      +     8.192 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             61.855 grams nitrogen.   61.232 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +0.623 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.089 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2450.
  Nitrogen per day      8.83 grams.

Examination of these data shows that the total amount of nitrogen
ingested for the seven days was 61.855 grams, while there were eliminated
in the urine 53.04 grams and through the fæces 8.192 grams of nitrogen,
thus showing a plus balance for the period of 0.623 gram of nitrogen. In
other words, with an average daily intake of 8.83 grams of nitrogen and
with an average fuel value of the food amounting to only 2450 calories
per day, the body was not only kept from loss, but was able to store up
a little nitrogen for future needs. Surely, one could not ask for any
better demonstration of physiological economy in nutrition than these
data, for this seven days’ period, afford.

Further, it should be mentioned, as confirmatory of the view that this
subject had long been in a condition of nitrogenous equilibrium on about
this quantity of food, that the average daily excretion of metabolized
nitrogen during this seven days’ period was 7.57 grams, while the average
daily excretion from April 13 to June 15 was 7.39 grams of nitrogen.
Finally, attention may be called to the fact that the ingestion of 8.83
grams of nitrogen corresponds to 55.18 grams of proteid food, while an
excretion of 7.57 grams of nitrogen means the metabolism of 47.3 grams
of proteid matter. A saving of more than fifty per cent in proteid food
and proteid metabolism, with maintenance of body and nitrogen equilibrium
with its possible physiological gains is not to be ignored.

       *       *       *       *       *

With Jacobus, a similar trial for nitrogen balance gave the following
results:


JACOBUS.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 73 grams, fried rice 100 grams, syrup 58 grams, bread
48 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 118 grams, sugar 35
grams.

Lunch.—Tomato soup 105 grams, sweet potato 61.5 grams, farina croquette
91 grams, syrup 49 grams, bread 35 grams, butter 23 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 46 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 155 grams, Hamburg steak 67 grams, spinach 30 grams,
potato 150 grams, bread 27 grams, butter 8 grams, pie 110 grams, cream 61
grams, sugar 10 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter         15 + 23 + 8 =  46     ×     0.15     =    0.069 grams.
  Banana                        73     ×     0.23     =    0.168
  Fried rice                   100     ×     0.75     =    0.750
  Bread                         48     ×     1.66     =    0.797
  Cream        118 + 46 + 61 = 225     ×     0.46     =    1.035
  Sugar         35 + 21 + 10 =  66     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee           150 + 150 = 300     ×     0.06     =    0.180
  Syrup              58 + 49 = 107     ×     0.024    =    0.026
  Tomato soup                  105     ×     0.41     =    0.431
  Bread                         35     ×     1.60     =    0.560
  Farina croquette              91     ×     1.09     =    0.991
  Sweet potato                  61.5   ×     0.32     =    0.197
  Consommé                     155     ×     0.38     =    0.589
  Potato                       150     ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Hamburg steak                 67     ×     3.64     =    2.439
  Bread                         27     ×     1.80     =    0.486
  Spinach                       30     ×     0.53     =    0.159
  Pie                          110     ×     0.43     =    0.473
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.920 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.750

  Fuel value of the food      2846 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 105 grams, baked potato 79 grams, bread 40 grams,
butter 15 grams, coffee 225 grams, cream 85 grams, sugar 24 grams.

Lunch.—Omelette (plain) 60 grams, fried hominy 68 grams, syrup 48 grams,
potato 100 grams, boiled onion 81 grams, bread 45 grams, butter 14.5
grams, apple pudding 117 grams, sugar 10 grams, cream 40 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 100 grams, bacon 31 grams, baked macaroni 53 grams, fried
sweet potato 55 grams, boiled Indian-meal 50 grams, bread 35 grams,
butter 15 grams, coffee 155 grams, cream 96 grams, sugar 31 grams,
chocolate 40 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       105     ×     0.23     =    0.242 grams.
  Bread                         40     ×     1.54     =    0.616
  Cream         85 + 40 + 96 = 221     ×     0.47     =    1.038
  Coffee           225 + 155 = 380     ×     0.06     =    0.228
  Sugar         10 + 24 + 31 =  65     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Potato                        79     ×     0.49     =    0.387
  Butter      15 + 14.5 + 15 =  44.5   ×     0.15     =    0.067
  Bread                         45     ×     1.60     =    0.720
  Onion                         81     ×     0.27     =    0.219
  Fried hominy                  68     ×     0.67     =    0.456
  Eggs (omelette)               60     ×     1.58     =    0.948
  Potato                       100     ×     0.49     =    0.490
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Apple pudding                117     ×     0.28     =    0.328
  Soup                         100     ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Bread                         35     ×     1.74     =    0.609
  Fried sweet potato            55     ×     0.38     =    0.209
  Bacon                         31     ×     3.00     =    0.930
  Baked macaroni                53     ×     0.93     =    0.493
  Boiled Indian-meal            50     ×     0.20     =    0.100
  Chocolate                     40     ×     0.73     =    0.292
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.914 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.270

  Fuel value of the food      2831 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 70 grams, fried hominy 57 grams, syrup 48 grams, baked
potato 113 grams, bread 34 grams, butter 16 grams, coffee 75 grams, cream
33 grams, sugar 10 grams.

Lunch.—Fish-cake 88 grams, fried hominy 61 grams, syrup 32 grams, potato
100 grams, bread 45 grams, butter 22.5 grams, coffee 75 grams, cream 35
grams, sugar 10 grams, bread pudding 81 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 75 grams, boiled fish 99 grams, potato 132 grams, rice
croquette 83 grams, syrup 50 grams, bread 49 grams, butter 19 grams,
coffee 150 grams, cream 48 grams, sugar 20 grams.

Evening.—Beer 375 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter      16 + 22.5 + 19 =  57.5   ×     0.15     =    0.086 grams.
  Orange                        70     ×     0.20     =    0.140
  Coffee       75 + 75 + 150 = 300     ×     0.06     =    0.180
  Cream         33 + 35 + 48 = 116     ×     0.44     =    0.510
  Sugar         10 + 10 + 20 =  40     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Potato                       113     ×     0.40     =    0.452
  Fried hominy                  57     ×     0.74     =    0.422
  Bread                         34     ×     1.72     =    0.585
  Syrup         48 + 32 + 50 = 130     ×     0.024    =    0.031
  Potato                       100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Bread                         45     ×     1.71     =    0.770
  Fried hominy                  61     ×     0.57     =    0.348
  Fish-cake                     88     ×     1.22     =    1.074
  Bread pudding                 81     ×     0.99     =    0.802
  Bread                         49     ×     1.97     =    0.965
  Fish                          99     ×     3.18     =    3.148
  Potato                       132     ×     0.34     =    0.449
  Rice croquette                83     ×     1.06     =    0.880
  Beer                         375     ×     0.069    =    0.259
  Consommé                      75     ×     0.59     =    0.443
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      11.844 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.290

  Fuel value of the food      2914 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 72 grams, roll 48 grams, butter 7 grams, boiled
Indian-meal 100 grams, cream 90 grams, sugar 17 grams.

Lunch.—Lamb chop 49 grams, potato 95 grams, tomato 91 grams, beans 45
grams, bread 49 grams, butter 13.5 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 28
grams, water ice 153 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 75 grams, bacon 12 grams, fried egg 50 grams, potato 100
grams, bread 40 grams, butter 9 grams, prunes 175 grams, coffee 75 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter        7 + 13.5 + 9 =  29.5   ×     0.15     =    0.044 grams.
  Banana                        72     ×     0.23     =    0.167
  Boiled Indian-meal           100     ×     0.17     =    0.170
  Cream              90 + 45 = 135     ×     0.43     =    0.581
  Sugar              17 + 28 =  45     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roll                          48     ×     1.65     =    0.792
  Bread                         49     ×     1.82     =    0.892
  Lamb chop                     49     ×     4.63     =    2.269
  Potato                        95     ×     0.71     =    0.675
  Coffee            150 + 75 = 225     ×     0.06     =    0.135
  Tomato                        91     ×     0.17     =    0.155
  Water Ice                    153     ×     0.012    =    0.018
  Bread                         40     ×     1.62     =    0.648
  Soup                          75     ×     1.21     =    0.908
  Prunes                       175     ×     0.16     =    0.280
  Potato                       100     ×     0.60     =    0.600
  Egg                           50     ×     2.27     =    1.135
  Bacon                         12     ×     3.05     =    0.366
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.835 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.070

  Fuel value of the food      2157 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 44 grams, oatmeal 130 grams, roll 52 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 120 grams, sugar 30 grams.

Lunch.—Fried rice 72 grams, syrup 48 grams, boiled onions 70 grams,
potato 100 grams, bread 33 grams, butter 14.5 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 45 grams, sugar 20 grams, ice cream 147 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 100 grams, chicken 75 grams, fried potato 50 grams, spinach
15 grams, bread 48 grams, butter 12 grams, coffee 75 grams, cream 50
grams, sugar 14 grams, strawberry short-cake 201 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                        44     ×     0.20     =    0.088
  Oatmeal                      130     ×     0.43     =    0.559
  Roll                          52     ×     1.67     =    0.868
  Cream        45 + 120 + 50 = 215     ×     0.45     =    0.968
  Sugar         30 + 20 + 14 =  64     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee      150 + 150 + 75 = 375     ×     0.06     =    0.225
  Bread                         33     ×     1.57     =    0.518
  Butter           14.5 + 12 =  26.5   ×     0.15     =    0.040
  Onions                        70     ×     0.25     =    0.175
  Potato                       100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Ice cream                    147     ×     0.53     =    0.779
  Fried rice                    72     ×     0.75     =    0.540
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Bread                         48     ×     1.91     =    0.917
  Soup                         100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Chicken                       75     ×     3.02     =    2.265
  Fried potato                  50     ×     0.37     =    0.185
  Spinach                       15     ×     0.55     =    0.083
  Strawberry short-cake        210     ×     0.50     =    1.005
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.827 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.620

  Fuel value of the food      2836 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 70 grams, roll 64 grams, butter 9 grams, coffee 75
grams, cream 85 grams, sugar 10 grams.

Lunch.—Boiled eggs 73 grams, fried potato 75 grams, bread 58 grams,
butter 11.5 grams, apple sauce 90 grams, coffee 75 grams, cream 35 grams,
sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Bacon 35 grams, potato croquette 47 grams, bread 39 grams, butter
9.5 grams, chocolate 45 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 15
grams, water ice 151 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        70     ×     0.23     =    0.161 grams.
  Butter      9 + 11.5 + 9.5 =  30     ×     0.15     =    0.045
  Cream         85 + 35 + 50 = 170     ×     0.45     =    0.765
  Sugar         10 + 21 + 15 =  46     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roll                          64     ×     1.63     =    1.043
  Coffee       72 + 75 + 100 = 250     ×     0.06     =    0.150
  Fried potato                  75     ×     0.60     =    0.450
  Bread                         58     ×     1.64     =    0.951
  Eggs                          73     ×     2.07     =    1.511
  Apple sauce                   90     ×     0.02     =    0.018
  Potato croquette              47     ×     0.77     =    0.362
  Bacon                         35     ×     3.28     =    1.148
  Bread                         39     ×     1.75     =    0.683
  Chocolate                     45     ×     0.73     =    0.329
  Water ice                    151     ×     0.006    =    0.009
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.625 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.480

  Fuel value of the food      2041 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 80 grams, boiled rice 105 grams, roll 55 grams, butter
9 grams, coffee 100 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 30 grams.

Lunch.—Soup 100 grams, fried potato 80 grams, boiled onions 130 grams,
bread 44.5 grams, butter 12.5 grams, stewed prunes 108 grams, coffee 100
grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak 84 grams, mashed potato 135 grams, bread 14 grams,
butter 3 grams, cream pie 153 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Rice                         105     ×     0.36     =    0.378 grams.
  Coffee           100 + 100 = 200     ×     0.06     =    0.120
  Orange                        80     ×     0.20     =    0.160
  Roll                          55     ×     1.64     =    0.902
  Butter        9 + 12.5 + 3 =  24.5   ×     0.15     =    0.037
  Sugar              30 + 21 =  51     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream              50 + 50 = 100     ×     0.45     =    0.450
  Bread                         44.5   ×     1.66     =    0.739
  Prunes                       108     ×     0.17     =    0.184
  Soup (celery)                100     ×     0.48     =    0.480
  Onions                       130     ×     0.30     =    0.390
  Potato (fried)                80     ×     0.25     =    0.200
  Potato (mashed)              135     ×     0.46     =    0.621
  Hamburg steak                 84     ×     3.96     =    3.326
  Bread                         14     ×     1.82     =    0.255
  Cream pie                    153     ×     0.93     =    1.423
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.665 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.640

  Fuel value of the food      2174 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Jacobus._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18      9.920 grams.    6.75 grams.     5.0 grams.
      19      8.914           6.27           10.0
      20     11.844           7.29           30.0
      21      9.835           7.07           28.3
      22      9.827           7.62           20.7
      23      7.625           6.48           18.8
      24      9.665           7.64           32.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            144.8   grams contain 6.58 % N.
             67.630          49.12      +     9.528 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             67.630 grams nitrogen.   58.648 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +8.982 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +1.283 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2542.
  Nitrogen per day      9.661 grams.

During this balance period of seven days, 67.630 grams of nitrogen were
taken in with the food, while 49.12 grams of nitrogen were excreted
through the urine and 9.528 grams were passed out through the fæces.
This means a large plus balance of 8.98 grams of nitrogen for the entire
period, showing that the body was being supplied with considerably
more proteid than was necessary for the establishment of nitrogen
equilibrium. The average daily intake of nitrogen was 9.661 grams,
whereas this might have been reduced to 8.4 grams per day with perfect
assurance of nitrogen equilibrium being maintained. Further, it is to be
noticed that the average daily intake of food for this period had a fuel
value of only 2542 calories. The average daily excretion of metabolized
nitrogen during the balance period was only 7.01 grams, while the average
daily excretion for the last two months of the experiment amounted to
7.43 grams.

       *       *       *       *       *

With Schenker the following results were obtained:


SCHENKER.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—None.

Lunch.—Bread 53 grams, butter 22 grams, stewed potato 148 grams, string
beans 110 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 200 grams, bread 84 grams, butter 35 grams, Hamburg
steak 119 grams, boiled potato 200 grams, spinach 100 grams, apple pie
138 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         53     ×     1.60     =    0.848 grams.
  Stewed potato                148     ×     0.32     =    0.474
  Butter             22 + 35 =  57     ×     0.15     =    0.086
  String beans                 110     ×     0.34     =    0.374
  Consommé                     200     ×     0.38     =    0.760
  Bread                         84     ×     1.80     =    1.512
  Hamburg steak                119     ×     3.64     =    4.332
  Potato                       200     ×     0.38     =    0.760
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Apple pie                    138     ×     0.43     =    0.593
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.269 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.770

  Fuel value of the food      2006 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—None.

Lunch.—Bread 82 grams, butter 32 grams, potato 232 grams, omelette 60
grams, apple-tapioca 180 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 200 grams, bread 57 grams, butter 15 grams, macaroni
107 grams, fried sweet potato 100 grams, bacon 28 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         82     ×     1.60     =    1.312 grams.
  Butter              32 + 15 = 47     ×     0.15     =    0.071
  Potato                       232     ×     0.49     =    1.137
  Omelette                      60     ×     1.58     =    0.948
  Apple-tapioca                180     ×     0.28     =    0.504
  Bread                         57     ×     1.74     =    0.992
  Tomato soup                  200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Macaroni                     107     ×     0.93     =    0.995
  Bacon                         28     ×     3.00     =    0.840
  Fried sweet potato           100     ×     0.38     =    0.380
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.239 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.730

  Fuel value of the food      1900 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 70 grams, baked potato 142 grams, roll 84 grams, butter
32.5 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Fish-ball 85 grams, potato 175 grams, lima beans 60 grams, bread
57 grams, butter 17 grams, bread pudding 336 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 150 grams, halibut 110 grams, potato 186 grams, string
beans 50 grams, bread 72 grams, butter 18 grams, cranberry sauce 163
grams, sugar 19 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                        70     ×     0.20     =    0.140 grams.
  Butter      32.5 + 17 + 18 =  67.5   ×     0.15     =    0.101
  Roll                          84     ×     1.72     =    1.445
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Cream                         50     ×     0.44     =    0.220
  Sugar              21 + 19 =  40     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Potato                       142     ×     0.40     =    0.568
  Potato                       175     ×     0.30     =    0.525
  Fish-ball                     85     ×     1.22     =    1.037
  Bread                         57     ×     1.71     =    0.975
  Bread pudding                336     ×     0.99     =    3.326
  Lima beans                    60     ×     0.76     =    0.456
  Bread                         72     ×     1.97     =    1.418
  Potato                       186     ×     0.34     =    0.632
  Fish (halibut)               110     ×     3.18     =    3.498
  String beans                  50     ×     0.36     =    0.180
  Cranberry sauce              163     ×     0.03     =    0.049
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.59     =    0.885
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      15.545 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                     12.480

  Fuel value of the food      2798 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 184 grams, cream 80 grams, boiled Indian-meal 155
grams, baked potato 140.5 grams, butter 15 grams, sugar 7 grams.

Lunch.—Lamb chop 25 grams, tomato 148 grams, potato croquette 147 grams,
fried Indian-meal 47.5 grams, syrup 48 grams, bread 35 grams, water ice
162 grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup 150 grams, bread 25 grams, butter 19 grams, bacon 29
grams, fried potato 150 grams, orange salad 67 grams, stewed prunes 208
grams, cream 50 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Boiled Indian-meal           155     ×     0.17     =    0.264 grams.
  Banana                       184     ×     0.23     =    0.423
  Cream              80 + 50 = 130     ×     0.43     =    0.559
  Baked potato                 140.5   ×     0.40     =    0.562
  Sugar                          7     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter             15 + 19 =  34     ×     0.15     =    0.051
  Lamb chop                     25     ×     4.63     =    1.158
  Tomato                       148     ×     0.17     =    0.252
  Potato croquette             147     ×     0.71     =    1.044
  Bread                         35     ×     1.82     =    0.637
  Fried Indian-meal             47.5   ×     1.09     =    0.518
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Water ice                    162     ×     0.012    =    0.019
  Bread                         25     ×     1.62     =    0.405
  Orange salad                  67     ×     0.21     =    0.141
  Stewed prunes                208     ×     0.16     =    0.332
  Fried potato                 150     ×     0.60     =    0.900
  Bacon                         29     ×     3.05     =    0.885
  Bean soup                    150     ×     1.21     =    1.815
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.977 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.760

  Fuel value of the food      2661 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 126 grams, baked potato 169 grams, roll 43 grams,
butter 15 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 53 grams, butter 15.5 grams, macaroni 165 grams, potato 150
grams, fried rice 114 grams, syrup 48 grams, ice cream 148 grams, cake 45
grams.

Dinner.—Celery soup 150 grams, fried potato 50 grams, spinach 40 grams,
mashed potato 50 grams, chicken 85 grams, strawberry short-cake 213 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       126     ×     0.20     =    0.252 grams.
  Roll                          43     ×     1.67     =    0.718
  Butter           15 + 15.5 =  30.5   ×     0.15     =    0.046
  Potato                       169     ×     0.40     =    0.676
  Bread                         53     ×     1.57     =    0.832
  Macaroni                     165     ×     0.46     =    0.759
  Potato                       150     ×     0.30     =    0.450
  Cake                          45     ×     1.20     =    0.540
  Ice cream                    148     ×     0.53     =    0.784
  Fried rice                   114     ×     0.75     =    0.855
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Fried potato                  50     ×     0.57     =    0.285
  Spinach                       40     ×     0.55     =    0.220
  Chicken                       85     ×     3.02     =    2.567
  Strawberry short-cake        213     ×     0.50     =    1.065
  Celery soup                  150     ×     0.33     =    0.495
  Mashed potato                 50     ×     0.37     =    0.185
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.741 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.980

  Fuel value of the food      2788 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 225 grams, griddle cakes 127 grams, syrup 96 grams,
roll 62 grams, butter 9.5 grams.

Lunch.—Consommé 100 grams, scrambled eggs 82 grams, fried potato 150
grams, rice croquette 150 grams, syrup 72 grams, bread 24 grams, butter
15 grams, apple sauce 125 grams.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup 100 grams, bread 51 grams, butter 17 grams, bacon
59 grams, potato croquette 80 grams, macaroni 100 grams, water ice 184
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       225     ×     0.23     =    0.518 grams.
  Griddle cakes                127     ×     0.91     =    1.156
  Butter       9.5 + 15 + 17 =  41.5   ×     0.15     =    0.062
  Roll                          62     ×     1.63     =    1.011
  Syrup              96 + 72 = 168     ×     0.024    =    0.040
  Scrambled eggs                82     ×     2.07     =    1.697
  Fried potato                 150     ×     0.60     =    0.900
  Rice croquette               150     ×     0.61     =    0.915
  Apple sauce                  125     ×     0.020    =    0.025
  Consommé                     100     ×     0.65     =    0.650
  Bread                         24     ×     1.64     =    0.394
  Bread                         51     ×     1.75     =    0.893
  Bacon                         59     ×     3.28     =    1.935
  Potato croquette              80     ×     0.77     =    0.610
  Macaroni                     100     ×     0.87     =    0.870
  Water ice                    184     ×     0.006    =    0.011
  Vegetable soup               100     ×     0.48     =    0.480
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      12.167 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                     10.040

  Fuel value of the food      3100 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—None.

Lunch.—Cream of celery soup 100 grams, bread 35 grams, butter 10 grams,
farina croquette 88 grams, potato 150 grams, stewed prunes 176 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 150 grams, Hamburg steak 77 grams, potato 150 grams,
spinach 75 grams, farina croquette 107 grams, syrup 48 grams, bread 30.5
grams, butter 7.5 grams, cream pie 162 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Bread                         35     ×     1.64     =    0.574 grams.
  Butter            10 + 7.5 =  17.5   ×     0.15     =    0.026
  Farina croquette              88     ×     0.74     =    0.651
  Potato                       150     ×     0.26     =    0.390
  Prunes                       176     ×     0.17     =    0.299
  Cream of celery soup         100     ×     0.48     =    0.480
  Tomato soup                  150     ×     0.19     =    0.285
  Hamburg steak                 77     ×     3.96     =    3.049
  Potato (fried)               150     ×     0.46     =    0.690
  Spinach                       75     ×     0.54     =    0.405
  Bread                         30.5   ×     1.82     =    0.555
  Cream pie                    162     ×     0.93     =    1.507
  Farina croquette             107     ×     0.76     =    0.813
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.736 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.710

  Fuel value of the food      2151 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Schenker._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18     10.269 grams.    8.77 grams.     8.0 grams.
      19      8.239           8.73           41.0
      20     15.545          12.48           26.5
      21      9.977           8.76           43.4
      22     10.741           9.98           29.0
      23     12.167          10.04           14.7
      24      9.736           8.71           20.5
                                             11.0
             ------          ------         ------
                                            193.4   grams contain 6.50% N.
              76.674         67.47      +    12.571 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
              76.674 grams nitrogen.   80.041 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  -3.367 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -0.481 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2486.
  Nitrogen per day      10.95 grams.

In this seven days’ balance trial, there were taken in with the food
76.674 grams of nitrogen, with an output of 67.47 grams of nitrogen
through the urine and 12.571 grams through the fæces, thus showing a
minus balance of 3.367 grams of nitrogen for the seven days. The fuel
value of the food averaged 2486 calories per day, while the average daily
excretion of metabolized nitrogen amounted to 9.63 grams. Schenker’s
daily nitrogen excretion for the last two months of the experiment
averaged 9.82 grams. Presumably, the slight minus balance of nitrogen
was due to the relatively small fuel value of the food, which doubtless
was not quite sufficient for the body-weight, and the degree of bodily
activity then prevailing.

       *       *       *       *       *

With G. W. Anderson, a plus balance was obtained as follows:


G. W. ANDERSON.


_Wednesday May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 103 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 42 grams, cream 125
grams, fried rice 45 grams, baked potato 92 grams, roll 65 grams, butter
11 grams.

Lunch.—Soup 150 grams, farina croquette 88 grams, sweet potato 206 grams,
string beans 75 grams, bread 62 grams, butter 15.5 grams, coffee 150
grams, sugar 14 grams, cream 30 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 200 grams, bread 59 grams, butter 20 grams, Hamburg
steak 109 grams, mashed potato 150 grams, coffee 200 grams, cream 30
grams, sugar 24 grams, spinach 100 grams, apple pie 150 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter      11 + 15.5 + 20 =  46.5   ×     0.15     =    0.070 grams.
  Sugar         42 + 24 + 14 =  80.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Banana                       103.0   ×     0.23     =    0.237
  Cream        125 + 30 + 30 = 185.0   ×     0.46     =    0.851
  Fried rice                    45.0   ×     0.75     =    0.338
  Roll                          65.0   ×     1.66     =    1.079
  Potato                        92.0   ×     0.39     =    0.359
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 200 = 500.0   ×     0.06     =    0.300
  Bread                         62.0   ×     1.60     =    0.992
  Soup                         150.0   ×     0.41     =    0.615
  Farina croquette              88.0   ×     1.09     =    0.959
  Sweet potato                 206.0   ×     0.32     =    0.659
  String beans                  75.0   ×     0.34     =    0.255
  Bread                         59.0   ×     1.80     =    1.062
  Soup (consommé)              200.0   ×     0.38     =    0.760
  Hamburg steak                109.0   ×     3.64     =    3.968
  Potato                       150.0   ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Spinach                      100.0   ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Apple pie                    150.0   ×     0.43     =    0.645
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      14.249 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.870

  Fuel value of the food      3323 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 170 grams, cream 140 grams, sugar 28 grams, coffee 150
grams, baked potato 127 grams, rolls 47 grams, butter 15 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 50 grams, butter 18 grams, fried potato 150 grams, fried
hominy 100 grams, syrup 48 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar
14 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 200 grams, fried sweet potato 70 grams, macaroni 125 grams,
spinach 105 grams, bacon 13 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150 grams,
sugar 14 grams, cream 40 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       170     ×     0.23     =    0.391 grams.
  Cream        140 + 50 + 40 = 230     ×     0.46     =    1.058
  Sugar         28 + 14 + 14 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter        15 + 18 + 15 =  48     ×     0.15     =    0.072
  Rolls                         47     ×     1.66     =    0.780
  Potato                       127     ×     0.39     =    0.495
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Bread                         50     ×     1.60     =    0.800
  Fried potato                 150     ×     0.32     =    0.480
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Hominy                       100     ×     0.67     =    0.670
  Bread                         46     ×     1.74     =    0.800
  Soup                         200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Fried sweet potato            70     ×     0.38     =    0.266
  Macaroni                     125     ×     0.93     =    1.163
  Spinach                      105     ×     0.56     =    0.588
  Bacon                         13     ×     3.00     =    0.390
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.295 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.360

  Fuel value of the food      2932 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 70 grams, roll 120 grams, butter 33 grams, coffee 150
grams, sugar 28 grams, cream 50 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 48 grams, butter 19 grams, fish-cake 81 grams, potato 200
grams, lima beans 50 grams, fried hominy 118 grams, syrup 96 grams,
coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 100 grams, boiled halibut 143 grams, mashed potato 177
grams, string beans 90 grams, stewed cranberry 76 grams, bread 56 grams,
butter 16 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter        33 + 19 + 16 =  68     ×     0.15     =    0.102 grams.
  Orange                        70     ×     0.20     =    0.140
  Rolls                        120     ×     1.72     =    2.064
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Cream         50 + 50 + 50 = 150     ×     0.44     =    0.660
  Bread                         48     ×     1.71     =    0.821
  Fish-cake                     81     ×     1.22     =    0.988
  Potato                       200     ×     0.30     =    0.600
  Lima beans                    50     ×     0.76     =    0.380
  Fried hominy                 118     ×     0.57     =    0.673
  Syrup                         96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Bread                         56     ×     1.97     =    1.104
  Consommé                     100     ×     0.59     =    0.590
  Halibut                      143     ×     3.18     =    4.547
  Mashed potato                177     ×     0.34     =    0.602
  Sugar         28 + 14 + 14 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  String beans                  90     ×     0.36     =    0.324
  Cranberry                     76     ×     0.03     =    0.023
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      13.911 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.950

  Fuel value of the food      3052 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 157 grams, roll 61 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 150 grams, sugar 28 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 58 grams, butter 17 grams, lamb chop 33 grams, potato
croquettes 138 grams, tomato 161 grams, water ice 162 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 75 grams, bread 59 grams, butter 22.5 grams, bacon 15 grams,
lettuce salad 64 grams, fried potato 100 grams, stewed prunes 283 grams,
coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       157.0   ×     0.23     =    0.361 grams.
  Roll                          61.0   ×     1.65     =    1.007
  Cream         50 + 50 + 50 = 250.0   ×     0.43     =    1.075
  Butter      15 + 17 + 22.5 =  54.5   ×     0.15     =    0.082
  Sugar         28 + 21 + 14 =  63.0   ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450.0   ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Bread                         58.0   ×     1.82     =    1.056
  Lamb chop                     33.0   ×     4.63     =    1.528
  Potato croquettes            138.0   ×     0.71     =    0.980
  Tomato                       161.0   ×     0.17     =    0.274
  Water ice                    162.0   ×     0.012    =    0.019
  Bread                         59.0   ×     1.62     =    0.956
  Soup                          75.0   ×     1.21     =    0.908
  Bacon                         15.0   ×     3.05     =    0.458
  Prunes           175 + 108 = 283.0   ×     0.16     =    0.453
  Salad                         64.0   ×     0.21     =    0.134
  Fried potato                 100.0   ×     0.60     =    0.600
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.161 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.510

  Fuel value of the food      2826 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 80 grams, oatmeal 100 grams, potato 103 grams, butter
16 grams, roll 50 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 125 grams, sugar 35
grams.

Lunch.—Bread 47 grams, butter 14.5 grams, macaroni 116 grams, potato 150
grams, fried rice 85 grams, syrup 48 grams, ice cream 169 grams, coffee
150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 100 grams, bread 40.5 grams, butter 16 grams, fried potato
50 grams, mashed potato 100 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams,
sugar 21 grams, strawberry short-cake 214 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                        80     ×     0.20     =    0.160 grams.
  Butter      16 + 14.5 + 16 =  46.5   ×     0.15     =    0.070
  Oatmeal                      100     ×     0.43     =    0.430
  Sugar     35 + 14 + 14 + 7 =  70     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Potato                       103     ×     0.40     =    0.412
  Cream       125 + 50 + 100 = 275     ×     0.45     =    1.238
  Roll                          50     ×     1.67     =    0.835
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Bread                         47     ×     1.57     =    0.738
  Macaroni                     116     ×     0.46     =    0.534
  Potato                       150     ×     0.30     =    0.450
  Fried rice                    85     ×     0.75     =    0.638
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Ice cream                    169     ×     0.53     =    0.896
  Bread                         40.5   ×     1.91     =    0.774
  Celery soup                  100     ×     0.33     =    0.330
  Fried potato                  50     ×     0.57     =    0.285
  Mashed potato                100     ×     0.37     =    0.370
  Strawberry short-cake        214     ×     0.50     =    1.070
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.512 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.500

  Fuel value of the food      3429 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 211 grams, roll 59 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 150 grams, sugar 28 grams.

Lunch.—Consommé 100 grams, bread 63 grams, butter 15 grams, rice 113
grams, syrup 48 grams, sugar 14 grams, fried potato 170 grams, apple
sauce 125 grams.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup 100 grams, bread 70 grams, butter 16 grams, bacon
42 grams, potato croquettes 49 grams, macaroni 105 grams, string beans
184 grams, water ice 148 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       211     ×     0.23     =    0.485 grams.
  Butter        15 + 15 + 16 =  46     ×     0.15     =    0.069
  Cream                        150     ×     0.45     =    0.675
  Roll                          59     ×     1.63     =    0.962
  Sugar              28 + 14 =  42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Bread                         63     ×     1.64     =    1.033
  Consommé                     100     ×     0.65     =    0.650
  Apple sauce                  125     ×     0.02     =    0.025
  Fried rice                   113     ×     0.61     =    0.689
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Fried potato                 170     ×     0.60     =    1.020
  Bread                         70     ×     1.75     =    1.225
  Vegetable soup               100     ×     0.70     =    0.700
  Macaroni                     105     ×     0.87     =    0.914
  Bacon                         42     ×     3.28     =    1.378
  Potato croquettes            149     ×     0.77     =    1.147
  String beans                 184     ×     0.22     =    0.405
  Water ice                    148     ×     0.006    =    0.009
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      11.488 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.900

  Fuel value of the food      3057 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 80 grams, roll 55 grams, butter 16 grams, potato 91
grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Celery soup 150 grams, bread 62 grams, butter 19 grams, mashed
potato 200 grams, farina croquettes 87 grams, syrup 48 grams, stewed
prunes 138 grams.

Dinner.—Soup 150 grams, bread 43 grams, butter 15 grams, Hamburg steak
82 grams, fried potato 150 grams, spinach 85 grams, rice croquettes 57
grams, syrup 48 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 14 grams,
lemon pie 125 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Butter        16 + 19 + 15 =  50     ×     0.15     =    0.075 grams.
  Orange                        80     ×     0.20     =    0.160
  Roll                          55     ×     1.64     =    0.902
  Potato                        91     ×     0.25     =    0.228
  Coffee           150 + 150 = 300     ×     0.06     =    0.180
  Cream              50 + 50 = 100     ×     0.45     =    0.450
  Sugar              21 + 14 =  35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Bread                         62     ×     1.66     =    1.029
  Celery soup                  150     ×     0.48     =    0.720
  Mashed potato                200     ×     0.26     =    0.520
  Farina croquettes             87     ×     0.74     =    0.644
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Prunes                       138     ×     0.17     =    0.235
  Soup                         150     ×     0.19     =    0.285
  Bread                         43     ×     1.82     =    0.783
  Hamburg steak                 82     ×     3.96     =    3.247
  Fried potato                 150     ×     0.46     =    0.690
  Spinach                       85     ×     0.54     =    0.459
  Rice croquettes               57     ×     0.76     =    0.433
  Lemon pie                    125     ×     0.93     =    1.163
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      12.226 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.450

  Fuel value of the food      3022 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_G. W. Anderson._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18     14.249 grams.    8.87 grams.
      19      9.295           8.36
      20     13.911           9.95           12.0 grams.
      21     10.161           8.51           46.0
      22      9.512           6.50           39.0
      23     11.488           6.90           67.0
      24     12.226           8.45
             ------          ------         ------
                                            164.0   grams contain 6.92% N.
             80.842          57.54      +    11.349 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             80.842 grams nitrogen.   68.889 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +11.953 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +1.707 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      3091
  Nitrogen per day      11.55 grams.

With G. W. Anderson, the balance trial was characterized by an intake
of 80.842 grams of nitrogen, with an output for the seven days of 57.54
grams through the urine and 11.349 grams through the fæces, thus making a
total excretion of 68.889 grams of nitrogen, and showing a plus balance
of 11.953 grams. In other words, the body of this subject, under the
conditions prevailing, was storing up nitrogen for future use at the
rate of 1.7 grams per day. This also means that a daily intake of 9.8
grams of nitrogen would have been quite sufficient to maintain nitrogen
equilibrium, certainly with the large fuel value of the food taken, _i.
e._, 3091 calories per day as the average value.

The average daily excretion of metabolized nitrogen during the balance
period amounted to 8.22 grams, while the average daily excretion for the
last two months of the experiment was 8.81 grams.

       *       *       *       *       *

With Stapleton, the following results were obtained, showing a distinct
positive balance:


STAPLETON.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 118 grams, bread 29 grams, butter 11 grams, sugar 56
grams, cream 125 grams.

Lunch.—Tomato soup 247 grams, bread 37 grams, butter 9 grams, croquettes
97 grams, potato 100 grams, string beans 46 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 109 grams, butter 40 grams, Hamburg steak 87 grams, potato
150 grams, spinach 100 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 30
grams, apple pie 110 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       118     ×     0.23     =    0.271 grams.
  Butter         11 + 9 + 40 =  60     ×     0.15     =    0.090
  Bread                         29     ×     1.66     =    0.481
  Sugar         35 + 21 + 30 =  86     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream       125 + 50 + 100 = 275     ×     0.46     =    1.265
  Tomato soup                  247     ×     0.41     =    1.013
  Bread                         37     ×     1.60     =    0.592
  Croquettes                    97     ×     1.09     =    1.057
  Sweet potato                 100     ×     0.32     =    0.320
  String beans                  46     ×     0.34     =    0.156
  Coffee           150 + 150 = 300     ×     0.06     =    0.180
  Bread                        109     ×     1.80     =    1.962
  Hamburg steak                 87     ×     3.64     =    3.167
  Potato                       150     ×     0.38     =    0.570
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Apple pie                    110     ×     0.43     =    0.473
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      12.127 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.670

  Fuel value of the food      3109 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—None.

Lunch.—Bread 48 grams, butter 14 grams, omelette 125 grams, boiled onion
63 grams, fried sweet potato 100 grams, coffee 300 grams, cream 150
grams, sugar 56 grams, apple pudding 146 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 200 grams, bread 42 grams, butter 9 grams, macaroni
75 grams, potato 36 grams, spinach 70 grams, bacon 16 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee           300 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270 grams.
  Butter              14 + 9 =  23     ×     0.15     =    0.035
  Bread                         48     ×     1.60     =    0.768
  Omelette                     125     ×     1.58     =    1.975
  Onions                        63     ×     0.27     =    0.170
  Sugar              56 + 21 =  77     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream             150 + 50 = 200     ×     0.47     =    0.940
  Potato                       100     ×     0.49     =    0.490
  Apple pudding                146     ×     0.28     =    0.409
  Bread                         42     ×     1.74     =    0.731
  Tomato soup                  200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Macaroni                      75     ×     0.93     =    0.698
  Fried sweet potato            36     ×     0.38     =    0.137
  Spinach                       70     ×     0.56     =    0.392
  Bacon                         16     ×     3.00     =    0.480
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.555 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.580

  Fuel value of the food      2072 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 150 grams, roll 65 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50
grams, sugar 35 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 64 grams, butter 18 grams, fish-cake 72 grams, potato 150
grams, lima beans 50 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 21
grams, bread pudding 150 grams.

Dinner.—Fish 113 grams, string beans 62 grams, potato 150 grams, rice
croquettes 102 grams, syrup 48 grams, stewed cranberry 95 grams, bread 33
grams, butter 16 grams, coffee 300 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 42 grams.

Evening.—Beer 750 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       150     ×     0.20     =    0.300 grams.
  Sugar         35 + 21 + 42 =  98     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roll                          65     ×     1.72     =    1.118
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 300 = 600     ×     0.06     =    0.360
  Cream       50 + 100 + 100 = 250     ×     0.44     =    1.100
  Bread                         64     ×     1.71     =    1.094
  Butter             18 + 16 =  34     ×     0.15     =    0.051
  Fish-cake                     72     ×     1.22     =    0.878
  Potato                       150     ×     0.30     =    0.450
  Lima beans                    50     ×     0.76     =    0.380
  Bread pudding                150     ×     0.99     =    1.485
  String beans                  62     ×     0.36     =    0.223
  Fish                         113     ×     3.18     =    3.593
  Bread                         33     ×     1.97     =    0.650
  Potato                       150     ×     0.34     =    0.510
  Rice croquettes              102     ×     1.06     =    1.081
  Cranberry                     95     ×     0.030    =    0.029
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Beer                         750     ×     0.069    =    0.518
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      18.832 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.510

  Fuel value of the food      2999 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 74 grams, baked potato 95 grams, roll 71 grams, butter
18 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 30 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 48 grams, butter 14 grams, lamb chop 27 grams, potato
croquette 91 grams, tomato 105 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams,
sugar 21 grams, water ice 185 grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup 150 grams, fried egg 127 grams, bacon 2 grams, fried
potato 108 grams, bread 77 grams, butter 18 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 50 grams, sugar 21 grams, jelly roll 56 grams.

Evening.—Beer 600 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        74     ×     0.23     =    0.170 grams.
  Roll                          71     ×     1.65     =    1.172
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar         30 + 21 + 21 =  72     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream        100 + 50 + 50 = 200     ×     0.43     =    0.860
  Potato                        95     ×     0.40     =    0.380
  Butter        18 + 14 + 18 =  50     ×     0.15     =    0.075
  Bread                         48     ×     1.82     =    0.874
  Lamb chop                     27     ×     4.63     =    1.250
  Croquette (potato)            91     ×     0.71     =    0.646
  Tomato                       105     ×     0.17     =    0.179
  Water ice                    185     ×     0.012    =    0.022
  Bread                         77     ×     1.62     =    1.247
  Bean soup                    150     ×     1.21     =    1.815
  Fried egg                    127     ×     2.27     =    2.883
  Bacon                          2     ×     3.05     =    0.061
  Fried potato                 108     ×     0.60     =    0.648
  Jelly roll                    56     ×     0.86     =    0.482
  Beer                         600     ×     0.069    =    0.414
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      13.448 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.640

  Fuel value of the food      2871 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 60 grams, oatmeal 150 grams, wheat roll 51 grams,
butter 17 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 49 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 37 grams, butter 13 grams, potato 114 grams, macaroni 115
grams, fried rice 92 grams, coffee 300 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 42
grams, ice cream 104 grams, cake 37.5 grams.

Dinner.—Chicken 89 grams, spinach 100 grams, fried potato 70 grams, bread
46 grams, butter 12 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 30
grams, strawberry short-cake 195 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Roll                          51     ×     1.67     =    0.852 grams.
  Sugar         49 + 42 + 30 = 121     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Orange                        60     ×     0.20     =    0.120
  Oatmeal                      150     ×     0.43     =    0.645
  Coffee     150 + 300 + 150 = 600     ×     0.06     =    0.360
  Cream      100 + 100 + 100 = 300     ×     0.45     =    1.350
  Butter        17 + 13 + 12 =  42     ×     0.15     =    0.063
  Potato                       114     ×     0.30     =    0.342
  Macaroni                     115     ×     0.46     =    0.529
  Bread                         37     ×     1.57     =    0.581
  Fried rice                    92     ×     0.75     =    0.690
  Ice cream                    104     ×     0.53     =    0.551
  Cake                          37.5   ×     1.20     =    0.450
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.55     =    0.550
  Chicken                       89     ×     3.02     =    2.688
  Fried potato                  70     ×     0.57     =    0.399
  Bread                         46     ×     1.91     =    0.879
  Short-cake                   195     ×     0.50     =    0.975
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      12.024 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.560

  Fuel value of the food      3442 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 98 grams, roll 68 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 100 grams, sugar 40 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 53 grams, butter 17.5 grams, boiled eggs 101 grams, apple
sauce 130 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 17 grams.

Dinner.—Bread 28 grams, butter 7 grams, bacon 40 grams, macaroni 62
grams, potato croquette 69 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50 grams, sugar
21 grams, water ice 116 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        98     ×     0.23     =    0.225 grams.
  Butter       15 + 17.5 + 7 =  39.5   ×     0.15     =    0.059
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Cream        100 + 50 + 50 = 200     ×     0.45     =    0.900
  Sugar         40 + 17 + 21 =  78     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roll                          68     ×     1.63     =    1.108
  Bread                         53     ×     1.64     =    0.869
  Apple sauce                  130     ×     0.02     =    0.026
  Boiled eggs                  101     ×     2.07     =    2.091
  Bread                         28     ×     1.75     =    0.490
  Macaroni                      62     ×     0.87     =    0.539
  Bacon                         40     ×     3.28     =    1.312
  Potato croquette              69     ×     0.77     =    0.531
  Water ice                    116     ×     0.006    =    0.007
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.427 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.030

  Fuel value of the food      2346 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 80 grams, roll 118 grams, butter 23 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 25 grams.

Lunch.—Soup 100 grams, bread 59 grams, butter 15.5 grams, potato 100
grams, farina croquettes 109 grams, tomato sauce 75 grams, boiled onions
107 grams, stewed prunes 105 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams,
sugar 18 grams.

Dinner.—Celery soup 150 grams, Hamburg steak 63 grams, potato 100 grams,
spinach 50 grams, bread 32 grams, butter 15 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 50 grams, sugar 16 grams, cream pie 79 grams.

Evening.—Beer 750 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Roll                         118     ×     1.64     =    1.935 grams.
  Orange                        80     ×     0.20     =    0.160
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Cream        50 + 100 + 50 = 200     ×     0.45     =    0.900
  Sugar         25 + 18 + 16 =  59     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter      23 + 15.5 + 15 =  53.5   ×     0.15     =    0.080
  Bread                         59     ×     1.66     =    0.979
  Tomato sauce                  75     ×     0.23     =    0.173
  Onions                       107     ×     0.30     =    0.321
  Celery soup                  100     ×     0.48     =    0.480
  Potato                       100     ×     0.26     =    0.260
  Farina croquettes            109     ×     0.74     =    0.807
  Prunes                       105     ×     0.17     =    0.179
  Hamburg steak                 63     ×     3.96     =    2.495
  Potato                       100     ×     0.46     =    0.460
  Soup                         150     ×     0.19     =    0.285
  Bread                         32     ×     1.82     =    0.582
  Spinach                       50     ×     0.54     =    0.270
  Cream pie                     79     ×     0.93     =    0.735
  Beer                         750     ×     0.069    =    0.518
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      11.889 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.040

  Fuel value of the food      2822 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Stapleton._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18     12.127 grams.    9.67 grams.    39.6 grams.
      19      8.555           8.58           34.5
      20     13.832           9.51           65.3
      21     13.448           9.64           17.8
      22     12.024           9.56           11.4
      23      8.427           8.03           27.7
      24     11.889           9.04
             ------          ------         ------
                                            196.3   grams contain 7.08% N.
             80.302          64.03      +    13.898 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             80.302 grams nitrogen.   77.928 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  +2.374 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  +0.339 gram.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2809.
  Nitrogen per day      11.47 grams.

With this subject, the total intake of nitrogen for the seven days’
period was 80.302 grams. The output of nitrogen through the urine
amounted to 64.03 grams, while 13.898 grams were passed out through the
fæces, making a total output of 77.928 grams of nitrogen. This shows a
plus balance of 2.374 grams of nitrogen for the seven days, indicating
a gain to the body of 0.339 gram per day. The fuel value of the food
averaged 2809 calories per day, while the daily excretion of metabolized
nitrogen averaged 9.14 grams. This is in close agreement with the average
daily excretion of nitrogen through the urine of this subject for the
last two months of the experiment, viz., 9.00 grams of nitrogen.

       *       *       *       *       *

With W. L. Anderson, the following results were obtained:


W. L. ANDERSON.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 90 grams, fried rice 150 grams, syrup 50 grams, wheat
roll 64 grams, butter 11 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 125 grams, sugar
21 grams.

Lunch.—Tomato soup 247 grams, bread 19 grams, butter 16.5 grams, sweet
potato 105 grams, farina croquette 115 grams, syrup 60 grams, coffee 150
grams, milk 50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 250 grams, bread 52 grams, butter 20 grams, Hamburg
steak 117 grams, boiled potato 150 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 50
grams, sugar 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        90     ×     0.23     =    0.207 grams.
  Cream        125 + 50 + 50 = 225     ×     0.46     =    1.035
  Sugar         21 + 14 + 14 =  49     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Roll                          64     ×     1.66     =    1.063
  Butter      11 + 16.5 + 20 =  47.5   ×     0.15     =    0.071
  Rice                         150     ×     0.75     =    1.125
  Syrup              50 + 60 = 110     ×     0.024    =    0.026
  Tomato soup                  247     ×     0.41     =    1.013
  Bread                         19     ×     1.60     =    0.304
  Sweet potato                 105     ×     0.32     =    0.336
  Farina croquette             115     ×     1.09     =    1.690
  Bread                         52     ×     1.80     =    0.936
  Consommé                     250     ×     0.38     =    0.950
  Hamburg steak                117     ×     3.64     =    4.259
  Potato                       150     ×     0.38     =    0.570
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      13.855 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                     10.030

  Fuel value of the food      2946 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 158 grams, roll 122 grams, butter 15 grams, boiled
hominy 150 grams, syrup 48 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 100 grams,
sugar 28 grams.

Lunch.—Bread 50 grams, butter 12 grams, fried hominy 100 grams, syrup 48
grams, boiled onions 80 grams, omelette 60 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream
50 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 200 grams, bread 43 grams, butter 10 grams, potato 50
grams, baked macaroni 202 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams, cream
25 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Roll                         122     ×     1.54     =    1.879 grams.
  Boiled hominy                150     ×     0.20     =    0.300
  Butter        15 + 12 + 10 =  37     ×     0.15     =    0.056
  Banana                       158     ×     0.23     =    0.363
  Sugar         28 + 14 + 14 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream        100 + 50 + 25 = 175     ×     0.47     =    0.823
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Bread                         50     ×     1.60     =    0.800
  Potato                       150     ×     0.49     =    0.735
  Fried hominy                 100     ×     0.67     =    0.670
  Onions                        80     ×     0.27     =    0.216
  Omelette                      60     ×     1.58     =    0.948
  Tomato soup                  200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Bread                         43     ×     1.74     =    0.748
  Potato                        50     ×     0.38     =    0.190
  Baked macaroni               202     ×     0.93     =    1.879
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.960 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                     10.150

  Fuel value of the food      3013 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Coffee 150 grams, cream 25 grams, sugar 14 grams, roll 70
grams, butter 9 grams.

Lunch.—Potato 100 grams, butter 3 grams, lima beans 50 grams, hominy 69
grams, syrup 48 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 25 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Consommé 150 grams, bread 28 grams, butter 15 grams, string beans
56 grams, potato 200 grams, rice croquette 65 grams, syrup 48 grams,
coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams, cream 25 grams.

Evening.—Beer 450 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270 grams.
  Cream         25 + 25 + 25 =  75     ×     0.44     =    0.330
  Sugar         14 + 14 + 14 =  42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Roll                          70     ×     1.72     =    1.204
  Butter          9 + 3 + 15 =  27     ×     0.15     =    0.041
  Potato                       100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Lima beans                    50     ×     0.76     =    0.380
  Fried hominy                  69     ×     0.57     =    0.393
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Consommé                     150     ×     0.59     =    0.885
  String beans                  56     ×     0.36     =    0.202
  Potato                       200     ×     0.34     =    0.680
  Bread                         28     ×     1.97     =    0.552
  Rice croquettes               65     ×     1.06     =    0.689
  Beer                         450     ×     0.069    =    0.311
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.260 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.640

  Fuel value of the food      1748 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 73 grams, bread 63 grams, butter 7 grams, coffee 150
grams, cream 50 grams, sugar 28 grams.

Lunch.—Potato 150 grams, tomato 145 grams, fried Indian-meal 81 grams,
syrup 48 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 21 grams, cream 25 grams, water
ice 165 grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup 150 grams, bread 29 grams, butter 16 grams, bacon 15
grams, fried potato 150 grams, cake 36 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14
grams, cream 45 grams.

Evening.—Beer 600 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        73     ×     0.23     =    0.168 grams.
  Sugar         28 + 21 + 14 =  63     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream         50 + 25 + 45 = 120     ×     0.43     =    0.516
  Bread                         63     ×     1.65     =    1.040
  Butter              7 + 16 =  23     ×     0.15     =    0.035
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Potato                       150     ×     0.71     =    1.065
  Tomato                       145     ×     0.17     =    0.247
  Fried Indian-meal             81     ×     1.09     =    0.883
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Water ice                    165     ×     0.012    =    0.020
  Bean soup                    150     ×     1.21     =    1.815
  Bread                         29     ×     1.62     =    0.470
  Bacon                         15     ×     3.05     =    0.458
  Fried potato                 150     ×     0.60     =    0.900
  Cake                          36     ×     0.86     =    0.310
  Beer                         600     ×     0.069    =    0.414
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.623 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.460

  Fuel value of the food      2393 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Oatmeal 200 grams, sugar 28 grams, coffee 150 grams, roll 60
grams, butter 6 grams.

Lunch.—Fried rice 140 grams, syrup 48 grams, potato 100 grams, macaroni
155 grams, boiled onions 80 grams, butter 5 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 25 grams, sugar 14 grams, ice cream 185 grams, cake 34 grams.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup 150 grams, mashed potato 134 grams, butter
11 grams, spinach 100 grams, strawberry short-cake 185 grams, cream 70
grams, sugar 28 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Roll                          60     ×     1.67     =    1.002 grams.
  Oatmeal                      200     ×     0.43     =    0.860
  Sugar         28 + 14 + 28 =  70     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Butter          6 + 5 + 11 =  22     ×     0.15     =    0.033
  Potato                       100     ×     0.30     =    0.300
  Macaroni                     155     ×     0.46     =    0.713
  Cream              25 + 70 =  95     ×     0.45     =    0.428
  Onions                        80     ×     0.25     =    0.200
  Fried rice                   140     ×     0.75     =    1.050
  Ice cream                    185     ×     0.53     =    0.981
  Cake                          34     ×     1.20     =    0.408
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Cream of celery soup         150     ×     0.33     =    0.495
  Mashed potato                134     ×     0.37     =    0.496
  Short-cake                   185     ×     0.50     =    0.925
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.55     =    0.550
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       8.723 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.960

  Fuel value of the food      2812 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 115 grams, wheat griddle cakes 87 grams, syrup 48
grams, butter 7 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 28 grams, cream 50 grams.

Lunch.—Fried potato 100 grams, rice croquette 115 grams, syrup 48 grams,
apple sauce 125 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Macaroni 270 grams, potato croquette 134 grams, coffee 150 grams,
sugar 14 grams, water ice 154 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       115     ×     0.23     =    0.265 grams.
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar         28 + 14 + 14 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         50     ×     0.45     =    0.225
  Griddle cakes                 87     ×     0.91     =    0.792
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Butter                         7     ×     0.15     =    0.011
  Apple sauce                  125     ×     0.020    =    0.025
  Rice croquette               115     ×     0.61     =    0.702
  Fried potato                 100     ×     0.60     =    0.600
  Macaroni                     270     ×     0.87     =    2.349
  Potato croquette             134     ×     0.77     =    1.032
  Water ice                    154     ×     0.006    =    0.009
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.303 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.490

  Fuel value of the food      2224 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Fried rice 115 grams, syrup 48 grams, roll 60 grams, butter 14
grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Lunch.—Celery soup 150 grams, farina croquette 108 grams, syrup 48 grams,
fried potato 200 grams, bread 22 grams, butter 7 grams, coffee 150 grams,
sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Fried potato 200 grams, cream pie 167 grams, coffee 150 grams,
cream 25 grams, sugar 14 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Fried rice                   115     ×     0.36     =    0.414 grams.
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Roll                          60     ×     1.64     =    0.984
  Butter              14 + 7 =  21     ×     0.15     =    0.032
  Sugar         14 + 14 + 14 =  42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Celery soup                  150     ×     0.48     =    0.720
  Farina croquette             108     ×     0.74     =    0.799
  Fried potato                 200     ×     0.26     =    0.520
  Bread                         22     ×     1.66     =    0.365
  Fried potato                 200     ×     0.46     =    0.920
  Cream pie                    167     ×     0.93     =    1.553
  Cream                         25     ×     0.45     =    0.113
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.713 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.600

  Fuel value of the food      2324 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_W. L. Anderson._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18     13.855 grams.   10.03 grams.    42.3 grams.
      19     10.960          10.15
      20      6.260           8.64           17.5
      21      8.623           8.46
      22      8.723           7.96           42.7
      23      6.303           7.49           41.0
      24      6.713           6.60           29.2
             ------          ------         ------
                                            172.7   grams contain 6.30% N.
             61.437          59.33      +    10.880 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             61.437 grams nitrogen.   70.210 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  -8.773 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -1.253 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2494.
  Nitrogen per day      8.777 grams.

Here, we find a minus balance of 8.773 grams of nitrogen for the seven
days’ period. The total intake of nitrogen amounted to 61.437 grams,
while there were excreted through the urine 59.33 grams, and through
the fæces 10.880 grams of nitrogen, making a total output of 70.210
grams as contrasted with an intake of 61.437 grams of nitrogen. This
loss of body material is to be attributed to the small fuel value of the
food,—only 2494 calories as the day’s average,—though perhaps in part to
the relatively small intake of nitrogen. In this connection it is to be
noted that the average daily excretion of metabolized nitrogen for the
seven days’ period amounted to only 8.777 grams, while the average daily
excretion for the last two months of the experiment was as high as 10.07
grams. Undoubtedly, the subject did not eat as much food during the week
of this balance trial as was needed to maintain equilibrium, under the
conditions of bodily activity then prevailing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The same statement applies to Mr. Bellis, whose balance trial likewise
shows a deficiency of ingested nitrogen over the nitrogen output. Here,
however, the deficiency is more manifestly due to the small fuel value
of the daily food, which averaged only 2174 calories. Bellis showed an
average daily excretion of metabolized nitrogen amounting to 8.45 grams
for the last six weeks of the experiment, while in the balance period
the excretion of metabolized nitrogen was 8.19 grams per day. The daily
intake of nitrogen in the food, however, averaged only 7.76 grams,
obviously too small a quantity to meet the wants of the body, especially
with the low fuel value of the food. It is quite plain that during the
week of this balance trial, the amount of food consumed was not equal to
the necessities of the body, neither was it equal in nitrogen or fuel
value to what the subject had been taking during the last few months of
the experiment, and on which he had practically maintained body-weight
for at least the last month of the experiment. It is further noticeable
that during the balance week the body-weight dropped off somewhat.

Owing to the absence of Dr. Callahan from New Haven during this period,
no attempt was made to determine experimentally whether he was in
nitrogen equilibrium or not.

The following tables give the data in the experiment with Bellis:—


BELLIS.


_Wednesday, May 18, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 94 grams, wheat roll 53 grams, butter 11 grams, coffee
150 grams, cream 75 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Soup 150 grams, farina croquette 100 grams, syrup 50 grams, string
beans 75 grams, fried sweet potato 117 grams, bread 36 grams, butter 7
grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Hamburg steak 53 grams, potato 250 grams, spinach 100 grams,
bread 55 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 75 grams, sugar
21 grams, apple pie 142 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        94     ×     0.23     =    0.216 grams.
  Cream              75 + 75 = 150     ×     0.46     =    0.690
  Sugar         21 + 14 + 21 =  56     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Roll (wheat)                  53     ×     1.66     =    0.880
  Butter         11 + 7 + 10 =  28     ×     0.15     =    0.042
  Soup                         150     ×     0.41     =    0.615
  Farina croquette             100     ×     1.09     =    1.090
  Fried sweet potato           117     ×     0.32     =    0.374
  String beans                  75     ×     0.34     =    0.255
  Syrup                         50     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Bread                         36     ×     1.60     =    0.576
  Hamburg steak                 53     ×     3.64     =    1.929
  Potato                       250     ×     0.38     =    0.950
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.53     =    0.530
  Bread                         55     ×     1.80     =    0.990
  Apple pie                    142     ×     0.43     =    0.611
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                      10.030 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.350

  Fuel value of the food      2686 calories.


_Thursday, May 19, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 155 grams, roll 53 grams, butter 10 grams, coffee 150
grams, sugar 28 grams, cream 70 grams.

Lunch.—Fried hominy 60 grams, syrup 48 grams, potato 100 grams, boiled
onion 82 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 35 grams, sugar 21 grams, bread
pudding 134 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 200 grams, macaroni 75 grams, mashed potato 54 grams,
spinach 70 grams, boiled Indian-meal 100 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream
80 grams, sugar 21 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Roll                          53     ×     1.54     =    0.816 grams.
  Banana                       155     ×     0.23     =    0.357
  Butter                        10     ×     0.15     =    0.015
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar         28 + 21 + 21 =  70     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream         70 + 35 + 80 = 185     ×     0.47     =    0.870
  Potato                       100     ×     0.49     =    0.490
  Fried hominy                  60     ×     0.67     =    0.402
  Boiled onion                  82     ×     0.27     =    0.221
  Bread pudding                134     ×     0.28     =    0.375
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Tomato soup                  200     ×     0.53     =    1.060
  Macaroni                      75     ×     0.93     =    0.698
  Mashed potato                 54     ×     0.38     =    0.205
  Spinach                       70     ×     0.56     =    0.392
  Boiled Indian-meal           100     ×     0.20     =    0.200
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.383 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      9.600

  Fuel value of the food      2075 calories.


_Friday, May 20, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 150 grams, roll 57 grams, butter 17 grams, coffee 159
grams, sugar 14 grams.

Lunch.—Fried farina 74 grams, syrup 48 grams, potato 250 grams, lima
beans 50 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Dinner.—Rice croquette 92 grams, syrup 48 grams, string beans 93 grams,
mashed potato 352 grams, bread 40 grams, butter 8 grams, coffee 150
grams, sugar 14 grams.

Evening.—Beer 450 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       150     ×     0.20     =    0.300 grams.
  Roll                          57     ×     1.72     =    0.980
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar         14 + 14 + 14 =  42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter              17 + 8 =  25     ×     0.15     =    0.038
  Potato                       250     ×     0.30     =    0.750
  Lima beans                    50     ×     0.76     =    0.380
  Fried farina                  74     ×     0.57     =    0.422
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  String beans                  93     ×     0.36     =    0.335
  Bread                         40     ×     1.97     =    0.788
  Mashed potato                352     ×     0.34     =    1.197
  Rice croquette                92     ×     1.06     =    0.975
  Beer                         450     ×     0.069    =    0.311
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.769 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                     10.670

  Fuel value of the food      1980 calories.


_Saturday, May 21, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 69 grams, baked potato 57 grams, bread 59 grams, butter
8 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Lunch.—Fried Indian-meal 80 grams, syrup 48 grams, potato croquette 152
grams, tomato 147 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams, water ice 163
grams.

Dinner.—Bean soup 150 grams, bacon 13 grams, fried egg 50 grams, fried
potato 206 grams, lettuce salad 45 grams, bread 38 grams, butter 8 grams,
coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Evening.—Beer 600 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                        69     ×     0.23     =    0.159 grams.
  Bread                         59     ×     1.65     =    0.974
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar         14 + 14 + 14 =  42     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Baked potato                  57     ×     0.40     =    0.228
  Butter               8 + 8 =  16     ×     0.15     =    0.024
  Potato croquette             152     ×     0.71     =    1.079
  Tomato                       147     ×     0.17     =    0.250
  Fried Indian-meal             80     ×     1.09     =    0.872
  Syrup                         48     ×     0.024    =    0.012
  Water ice                    163     ×     0.012    =    0.020
  Bread                         38     ×     1.62     =    0.616
  Bacon                         13     ×     3.05     =    0.397
  Fried egg                     50     ×     2.27     =    1.135
  Bean soup                    150     ×     1.21     =    1.815
  Lettuce salad                 45     ×     0.21     =    0.095
  Fried potato                 206     ×     0.60     =    1.236
  Beer                         600     ×     0.069    =    0.414
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       9.596 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      8.460

  Fuel value of the food      2071 calories.


_Sunday, May 22, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 100 grams, oatmeal 100 grams, roll 50 grams, butter 8
grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 40 grams, sugar 21 grams.

Lunch.—Macaroni 112 grams, potato 200 grams, onions 143 grams, coffee 150
grams, sugar 7 grams, ice cream 170 grams, cake 31 grams.

Dinner.—Cream of celery soup 150 grams, mashed potato 182 grams, spinach
100 grams, coffee 150 grams, sugar 7 grams, strawberry short-cake 97
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       100     ×     0.20     =    0.200 grams.
  Roll                          50     ×     1.67     =    0.835
  Butter                         8     ×     0.15     =    0.012
  Oatmeal                      100     ×     0.43     =    0.430
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Sugar           21 + 7 + 7 =  35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Cream                         40     ×     0.45     =    0.180
  Macaroni                     112     ×     0.46     =    0.515
  Potato                       200     ×     0.30     =    0.600
  Onions                       143     ×     0.25     =    0.358
  Ice cream                    170     ×     0.53     =    0.901
  Cake                          31     ×     1.20     =    0.372
  Cream of Celery soup         150     ×     0.33     =    0.495
  Mashed potato                182     ×     0.37     =    0.673
  Spinach                      100     ×     0.55     =    0.550
  Strawberry short-cake         97     ×     0.50     =    0.485
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       6.876 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      7.710

  Fuel value of the food      1929 calories.


_Monday, May 23, 1904._

Breakfast.—Banana 219 grams, coffee 150 grams, cream 80 grams, sugar 28
grams.

Lunch.—Rice croquette 143 grams, syrup 45 grams, potato 200 grams, coffee
150 grams, sugar 7 grams, apple sauce 250 grams.

Dinner.—Vegetable soup 150 grams, bacon 37 grams, string beans 100 grams,
potato 101 grams, macaroni 86 grams, coffee 150 grams, water ice 184
grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Banana                       219     ×     0.23     =    0.504 grams.
  Cream                         80     ×     0.45     =    0.360
  Sugar               28 + 7 =  35     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Coffee     150 + 150 + 150 = 450     ×     0.06     =    0.270
  Apple sauce                  250     ×     0.02     =    0.050
  Rice croquette               143     ×     0.61     =    0.872
  Syrup                         45     ×     0.024    =    0.011
  Potato                       200     ×     0.60     =    1.200
  Macaroni                      86     ×     0.87     =    0.748
  Vegetable soup               150     ×     0.70     =    1.050
  Bacon                         37     ×     3.28     =    1.214
  String beans                 100     ×     0.22     =    0.220
  Potato croquette             101     ×     0.77     =    0.778
  Water ice                    184     ×     0.006    =    0.011
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.288 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      5.980

  Fuel value of the food      2226 calories.


_Tuesday, May 24, 1904._

Breakfast.—Orange 100 grams, baked potato 138 grams, butter 5 grams,
coffee 150 grams, sugar 14 grams.

Lunch.—Celery soup 150 grams, farina croquette 91 grams, syrup 48 grams,
boiled onions 110 grams, potato 200 grams, stewed prunes 113 grams.

Dinner.—Tomato soup 150 grams, farina croquette 107 grams, syrup 48
grams, potato 200 grams, spinach 180 grams, cream pie 140 grams.

  Food.                    Grams.   Per cent Nitrogen.  Total Nitrogen.

  Orange                       100     ×     0.20     =    0.200 grams.
  Baked potato                 138     ×     0.25     =    0.345
  Coffee                       150     ×     0.06     =    0.090
  Sugar                         14     ×     0.00     =    0.000
  Butter                         5     ×     0.15     =    0.008
  Boiled onions                110     ×     0.30     =    0.330
  Celery soup                  150     ×     0.48     =    0.720
  Potato                       200     ×     0.26     =    0.520
  Farina croquette              91     ×     0.74     =    0.673
  Syrup              48 + 48 =  96     ×     0.024    =    0.023
  Stewed prunes                113     ×     0.17     =    0.192
  Spinach                      180     ×     0.54     =    0.972
  Tomato soup                  150     ×     0.19     =    0.285
  Potato                       200     ×     0.46     =    0.920
  Farina croquette             107     ×     0.76     =    0.813
  Cream pie                    140     ×     0.93     =    1.302
                                                          ------
              Total nitrogen in food                       7.393 grams.
              Total nitrogen in urine                      6.610

  Fuel value of the food      2254 calories.


NITROGEN BALANCE.—_Bellis._

              Nitrogen                  Output.
              Taken in.  Nitrogen in Urine.  Weight of Fæces (dry).

  May 18     10.030 grams.    8.35 grams.
      19      6.383           9.60
      20      6.769          10.67
      21      9.596           8.46           51.0 grams.
      22      6.876           7.71           46.0
      23      7.288           5.98           27.2
      24      7.393           6.61           57.5
             ------          ------         ------
                                            181.7   grams contain 6.38% N.
             54.335          57.38      +    11.592 grams nitrogen.
             ------          ----------------------
             54.335 grams nitrogen.   68.972 grams nitrogen.

  Nitrogen balance for seven days  =  -14.637 grams.
  Nitrogen balance per day         =  -2.091 grams.

  Average Intake.

  Calories per day      2174.
  Nitrogen per day      7.762 grams.


THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE SUBJECTS.

Having considered the marked decline in the extent of proteid metabolism
which these subjects have exhibited for a period of five months, and
having shown the possibility of their maintaining body-weight and
nitrogen equilibrium on a low proteid intake, coupled with a relatively
small amount (low fuel value) of non-nitrogenous food, it is appropriate
to consider next their physical condition under this changed mode
of living. So much has been written upon the necessity of a rich
proteid diet, with a corresponding rate of proteid metabolism, for the
maintenance of bodily strength and vigor, that it becomes a question of
vital importance to obtain data bearing upon the effect of a lowered
proteid intake upon bodily strength. If, as is so widely believed,
diminishing the daily proportion of proteid food below the standards set
by Voit and other physiologists will result in a weakening of the muscles
of the body, in decreasing the strength, vigor, and endurance of the
individual, then obviously physiological economy in this direction would
in the long run be uneconomical, and indeed injurious. The maintenance
of body-weight and of nitrogen equilibrium on a small amount of proteid
food would count for little, when compared with a gradual loss of bodily
strength and vigor.

It was truly a great surprise when the systematic strength tests applied
month after month to the soldiers indicated a marked gain in muscular
power, which seemingly increased as the rate of proteid metabolism
diminished, coincident with the decrease in the amount of proteid food
fed. The dynamometer tests were applied primarily to make sure there was
no falling off in strength, and when the marked gains already referred
to were recorded, it was thought at first that they must be the result
mainly of the systematic training the soldiers were undergoing in the
gymnasium. Undoubtedly, this daily training, with the more regular and
systematic methods of living, did contribute in some measure to the
beneficial results obtained, but as the improvement and general gain in
strength became more and more apparent, it was equally clear there were
other factors involved than mere training.

The opportunity presented by the present subjects therefore was
particularly desirable. These men had been in training for many months,
some of them for several years, and naturally had acquired a high
degree of proficiency in all kinds of athletic work, in the handling of
themselves and in the handling of the apparatus, by use of which the
strength tests are made.

The tests, etc., were applied exactly in the same manner as in the case
of the soldier detail, description of which will be found on pages 259
and 260.

The following tables give the results of the tests—made at the Yale
Gymnasium, and reported by Dr. Anderson—from January to June, for the
eight men. It will be noted, however, that the record of Mr. Bellis is
incomplete. This was owing to an injury to his hand, which prevented his
working with the apparatus during the months of May and June.

The results presented by these tables are very important and suggestive.
Every man, without exception, showed a decided improvement in his
muscular power as measured by the strength tests. With many of the men
the gain was progressive, with others there was noticeable—as in the case
of W. L. Anderson and G. W. Anderson in the March test—a drop in some one
test. This could generally be explained by some temporary cause. Thus,
the March test taken by W. L. Anderson was at a time when he was under
great strain in connection with an intercollegiate meet, etc. However, it
is clear from the figures presented that all these men, though living on
a greatly reduced amount of proteid food, and with certainly no increase
in the quantity of non-nitrogenous food, showed at the end of the
experiment a decided gain in muscular power. Note for example the great
gain in strength shown by Schenker; in January his dynamometer tests,
etc., indicated a total of 5728, while at the close of the experiment
in June his record was 7135. Again, Bellis increased from 5993 to 8165,
and W. L. Anderson from 6016 to 9472. Further, the men all agree in the
good effect the changed conditions have had upon them, and they have,
without exception, been able to do their athletic work and maintain their
athletic supremacy.


STRENGTH OR DYNAMOMETER TESTS.

  +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                          ANDERSON, G. W.                              |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |         | Weight. | Lung     | Right | Left  | Chest. | Back. | Legs. |
  |         |         | Capacity.| Hand. | Hand. |        |       |       |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   163   |    500   |  108  |   97  |   85   |  425  |  900  |
  | Feb. 20 |   163   |    535   |  109  |  105  |   70   |  380  |  570  |
  | Mar. 20 |   159   |    530   |  110  |  103  |   75   |  410  |  720  |
  | Apr. 20 |   161   |    500   |  101  |   97  |   85   |  490  |  810  |
  | May  26 |   159   |    532   |  120  |  100  |   80   |  475  |  885  |
  | June 17 |   157   |    530   |  100  |   90  |   80   |  530  |  840  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                          ANDERSON, W. L.                              |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   139   |    420   |   95  |   88  |  145   |  410  |  625  |
  | Feb. 20 |   136   |    440   |   95  |   80  |  137   |  550  |  560  |
  | Mar. 20 |   135   |    430   |   95  |   85  |  140   |  510  |  570  |
  | Apr. 20 |   138   |    460   |   93  |   75  |  165   |  650  |  730  |
  | May  26 |   134   |    450   |   90  |   70  |  155   |  570  |  880  |
  | June 17 |   137   |    450   |   95  |   85  |  160   |  600  |  860  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                             BELLIS.                                   |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   180   |    550   |  130  |  130  |  155   |  550  |  825  |
  | Feb. 20 |   174   |    500   |  155  |  135  |  135   |  580  |  925  |
  | Mar. 20 |   176   |    550   |  150  |  135  |  155   |  500  |  900  |
  | Apr. 20 |   177   |    510   |  160  |  150  |  150   |  560  | 1111  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                           CALLAHAN.                                   |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   204   |   565    |  105  |  110  |  145   |  450  |  620  |
  | Feb. 20 |   193   |   560    |  120  |  120  |  145   |  440  |  590  |
  | Mar. 20 |   185   |   565    |  125  |  115  |  145   |  420  |  650  |
  | Apr. 20 |   181   |   580    |  120  |  120  |  145   |  530  |  685  |
  | June 18 |   184   |          |  120  |  115  |  140   |  520  |  890  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                           DONAHUE.                                    |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   142   |   320    |   95  |  100  |   74   |  330  |  500  |
  | Feb. 20 |   136   |   345    |  105  |  115  |   95   |  340  |  490  |
  | Mar. 20 |   137   |   400    |  110  |   95  |  100   |  340  |  710  |
  | May   1 |   138   |   420    |   95  |   80  |  115   |  360  |  650  |
  | May  26 |   137   |   425    |  103  |   90  |  135   |  430  |  570  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                           JACOBUS.                                    |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   126   |   350    |   97  |   93  |   96   |  250  |  300  |
  | Feb. 20 |   124   |   380    |   97  |   97  |   75   |  460  |  470  |
  | Mar. 20 |   125   |   370    |   95  |   95  |   80   |  430  |  490  |
  | May   2 |   124   |   350    |   85  |   90  |  100   |  350  |  510  |
  | May  26 |   125   |   360    |   95  |   95  |  110   |  360  |  600  |
  | June 16 |   125   |   375    |   95  |   85  |  120   |  400  |  700  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                           SCHENKER.                                   |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   161   |   485    |  112  |   90  |  135   |  410  |  440  |
  | Feb. 20 |   159   |   490    |  115  |   90  |  125   |  530  |  730  |
  | Mar. 20 |   158   |   500    |  100  |   95  |  120   |  550  |  780  |
  | Apr. 20 |   164   |   490    |   90  |   90  |  127   |  410  |  580  |
  | May  26 |   159   |   500    |  125  |  105  |  155   |  470  |  850  |
  | June  9 |   160   |   500    |  110  |  110  |  155   |  570  |  910  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  |                                                                       |
  |                           STAPLETON.                                  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+
  | Jan. 20 |   170   |   520    |  105  |  105  |  155   |  455  |  570  |
  | Feb. 20 |   167   |   520    |  105  |  110  |  160   |  550  |  690  |
  | Mar. 20 |   170   |   500    |  100  |  100  |  145   |  350  |  600  |
  | Apr. 20 |   162   |   500    |  100  |  105  |  155   |  410  |  670  |
  | May  26 |   164   |   515    |  100  |   95  |  150   |  470  |  770  |
  +---------+---------+----------+-------+-------+--------+-------+-------+

  +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                          ANDERSON, G. W.                             |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |         | Pull up. | Push up. | Vault and | Run. | Product. | Total. |
  |         |          |          | Ladder.   |      |          |        |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |     8    |     11   |     E     | 1.05 |   3300   |  4913  |
  | Feb. 20 |    10    |     14   |     E     | 1.07 |   3972   |  5206  |
  | Mar. 20 |    10    |      9   |     E     | 1.07 |   3021   |  4439  |
  | Apr. 20 |    13    |     11   |           | 1.05 |   3864   |  5387  |
  | May  26 |     9    |     15   |           |      |   3816   |  5476  |
  | June 17 |    12    |     14   |           |      |   4082   |  5722  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                          ANDERSON, W. L.                             |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    13    |     20   |     E     | 0.48 |   4553   |  6016  |
  | Feb. 20 |    15    |     25   |     E     | 0.45 |   5520   |  6942  |
  | Mar. 20 |    11    |     15   |     E     | 0.47 |   3510   |  4890  |
  | Apr. 20 |    12    |     30   |           | 1.04 |   5806   |  7519  |
  | May  26 |    25    |     31   |           |      |   7504   |  9267  |
  | June 17 |    30    |     26   |           |      |   7672   |  9472  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                             BELLIS.                                  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    10    |     13   |     E     | 1.06 |   4653   |  5993  |
  | Feb. 20 |    11    |     15   |     E     | 1.08 |   4615   |  6445  |
  | Mar. 20 |    12    |     20   |     E     | 1.08 |   5728   |  7568  |
  | Apr. 20 |    13    |     21   |           |      |   6035   |  8165  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                           CALLAHAN.                                  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |     2    |      1   |     D     | 1.20 |    724   |  2154  |
  | Feb. 20 |     4    |      3   |     F     | 1.18 |   1365   |  2780  |
  | Mar. 20 |     5    |      4   |     E     | 1.15 |   1692   |  3142  |
  | Apr. 20 |     5    |      4   |           | 1.16 |   1629   |  3229  |
  | June 18 |     7    |      5   |           | 1.14 |   2208   |  3983  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                           DONAHUE.                                   |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    12    |    12    |      E    | 1.04 |   3480   |  4584  |
  | Feb. 20 |    13    |    14    |      E    | 1.04 |   3753   |  4905  |
  | Mar. 20 |    15    |    16    |      E    | 1.06 |   4309   |  5664  |
  | May   1 |    17    |    16    |           |      |   4554   |  5854  |
  | May  26 |    17    |    16    |           |      |   4589   |  5917  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                           JACOBUS.                                   |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    14    |    14    |      E    | 1.00 |   3712   |  4548  |
  | Feb. 20 |    15    |    15    |      E    | 1.02 |   3683   |  4883  |
  | Mar. 20 |    15    |    15    |      E    | 1.03 |   3810   |  5000  |
  | May   2 |    15    |    14    |           | 1.03 |   3610   |  4740  |
  | May  26 |    14    |    17    |           |      |   3875   |  5135  |
  | June 16 |    15    |    19    |           |      |   4267   |  5667  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                           SCHENKER.                                  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    14    |    14    |      E    | 1.06 |   4771   |  5728  |
  | Feb. 20 |    14    |    15    |      E    | 1.07 |   4748   |  6338  |
  | Mar. 20 |    15    |    15    |      E    | 1.12 |   4830   |  6475  |
  | Apr. 20 |    17    |    15    |           | 1.10 |   5248   |  6545  |
  | May  26 |    16    |    15    |           | 1.08 |   5104   |  6809  |
  | June  9 |    17    |    16    |           |      |   5280   |  7135  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  |                                                                      |
  |                           STAPLETON.                                 |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+
  | Jan. 20 |    11    |    12    |      E    | 1.21 |   3961   |  5351  |
  | Feb. 20 |     6    |    10    |      E    | 1.22 |   2704   |  4319  |
  | Mar. 20 |     7    |    12    |      E    |      |   3268   |  4563  |
  | Apr. 20 |     9    |    14    |           |      |   3726   |  5886  |
  | May  26 |    12    |    20    |           |      |   5248   |  6833  |
  +---------+----------+----------+-----------+------+----------+--------+

Naturally, in the case of these men the gain in strength recorded
cannot be assigned to systematic training. The only change in their
mode of living which can in any sense be considered as responsible for
the improvement is the change in diet. The main fact to be emphasized,
however, is that these men—trained athletes, accustomed to living on
relatively large amounts of proteid food—for a period of five months
reduced their intake of proteid food more than fifty per cent without
loss of bodily strength, but, on the contrary, with a marked improvement
in their muscular power.

Most striking is this gain in strength when compared with the very
marked decline in the rate of proteid metabolism. Thus, in the case
of Jacobus, the excretion of metabolized nitrogen was reduced to 7.43
grams per day as the average for the last two months of the experiment,
yet his strength test showed an increase from 4548 in January to 5667
for June. Further, it must be recalled that an excretion of 7.43 grams
of nitrogen means the metabolism of only 46.4 grams of proteid matter.
Similarly, in the case of Donahue, a very active man whose work on the
Varsity basket-ball team called for vigorous exercise, his strength
test rose from 4584 to 5917 on a daily diet which led to the metabolism
of only 7.39 grams of nitrogen per day, or about 46 grams of proteid
matter. Further, Donahue frequently referred to the far greater freedom
from fatigue he experienced on the low proteid diet, and he was clearly
conscious of a distinct improvement in his physical condition.

[Illustration: W. L. ANDERSON

BELLIS

_Photographs taken prior to the experiment._]

       *       *       *       *       *

The following letter from Dr. Anderson, the Director of the Yale
Gymnasium, gives his estimate of the men at the end of the first three
months of the experiment:

                        YALE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM, NEW HAVEN, CONN.,
                        April 12, 1904.

    Professor RUSSELL H. CHITTENDEN, _Director of the Sheffield
    Scientific School, Yale University._

    DEAR SIR,—Herewith find a brief report of the physical
    condition and ability of the eight Yale students who are taking
    the special diet while engaged in active exercise.

    These men, with one exception, Dr. Callahan, are experts in
    their special lines of avocation.

    Mr. G. W. ANDERSON is a foot-ball, base-ball, and basket-ball
    player, as well as a crew man (not Varsity), well built and an
    all round athlete.

    Mr. W. L. ANDERSON, a “Y” athlete (hurdler), the captain of
    the Yale Gymnastic Team, University Gymnastic Champion, and
    American Collegiate Gymnastic Champion.

    Mr. H. S. BELLIS, a member of the Y. G. A., a gymnast and
    acrobat and in constant training.

    Dr. W. H. CALLAHAN, Medical Assistant at the Gymnasium, in
    daily practice in the gymnasium; bowling, hand-ball, and
    running.

    Mr. M. DONAHUE, a very muscular and versatile athlete, a
    foot-ball player and a Varsity basket-ball player.

    Mr. C. S. JACOBUS, a “Y” athlete, a noted long-distance man,
    and one of the best University runners.

    Mr. H. R. SCHENKER, an active member of the Y. G. A., a point
    winner and intercollegiate competitor in gymnastics.

    Mr. JOHN STAPLETON, a wrestler and gymnast. A professional, a
    man of large body and great strength.

    These eight men are in constant practice and in the “pink of
    condition.” They were in “training form” when they began the
    changed diet. All have lost in weight, especially Dr. Callahan,
    who has dropped from 204 pounds to 185 pounds in two months.
    Dr. Callahan is not an athlete, but is a vigorous worker in
    the gymnasium, being in daily and constant practice. He is
    liberally supplied with adipose tissue and can well afford to
    drop in weight.

    As to the loss of weight in the other cases, it would not be
    wise to attribute this to the diet alone. We find that most
    athletes who represent the University in the big contests lose
    in body-weight, but I attribute this loss as much to worry and
    responsibility as to strict bodily activity.

    These students are in a different class from the soldiers,
    first, because they are well educated young men, secondly,
    because their development was towards a specific end, the
    attainment of strength and skill as representative Yale
    athletes, and thirdly, on account of college requirements
    of fifteen hours per week, which time stands for study and
    laboratory attendance aside from the recitations. We have
    here a double drain on the body energy. All mental work is
    expensive, hence the demand upon the corporeal machinery has
    been very constant and strenuous.

    I notice little change in the condition of the men over that
    of a year ago, when I had most of them with me and under like
    physical training.

    In the case of W. L. Anderson, captain of the Yale Gymnastic
    Association, there was a noticeable falling off in the strength
    tests in February and March, but I believe the worry incident
    to the intercollegiate contests, the steady training, and the
    business cares of the Association went far towards producing
    a fatigued state. W. L. Anderson is only a freshman in the
    Medical School; he did his studying at night, and this combined
    with his youth doubtless caused the loss of weight as much as
    any change in diet. He has shown the same symptoms before this
    year. At this writing he is in good physical condition. I speak
    with certainty in his case because I have had good opportunity
    to study him at home. _It was while under the restricted diet
    that he won both championships, these being the Collegiate and
    All-around Intercollegiate Championship of America._[44]

    Schenker won points for the first time in the intercollegiate
    contests while on the diet; he showed no falling off, rather to
    the contrary, made a steady gain in ability.

    Jacobus complained of a pain in his side but in spite of this
    he has entered a number of events, has kept up his training and
    is in good condition. Jacobus is a long-distance runner; great
    endurance is required for these events, and this endurance he
    has kept up. He tells me his stomach is in better condition
    than it has been during his three years of work at Yale.

    Donahue has steadily improved in ability. He has kept his
    position on the Varsity Basket Ball Team, and has put up strong
    and aggressive games, and says he is as well as ever.

    Stapleton shows no falling off at all. He keeps up wrestling,
    which is a drastic exercise; he works at heavy gymnastics and
    gains steadily.

    One matter must be reported in reference to the strength tests.
    The first trial was made when all members of the squad were
    present. College men are very sensitive to competition, hence
    the great exertion put forth. The other trials were made when
    the men were by themselves. The “spur” was missing.

    I have watched the efforts of these men with interest and care,
    especially as two of them live in my own family. I fail to
    see any falling off in strength, the case of W. L. Anderson
    excepted. The fellows report being in satisfactory shape and
    claim that the “ups and downs” are no more in evidence this
    year than in the past.

    These picked men, representing several kinds of competitive
    sports, have gained in ability and skill on the more limited
    diet they are now using, and are not showing any signs of
    deterioration from the diminished intake of proteid food. I
    pronounce them, from a physical standpoint, in good shape.

                          Respectfully yours,

                                       (Signed) WILLIAM G. ANDERSON.

It must be remembered that this letter from Dr. Anderson was written
after the March strength test was taken, and prior to the test of April
20. Dr. Anderson was not in New Haven at the close of the experiment,
consequently it was not possible to obtain his estimate of the men
at that date, but there can be no question that there was a distinct
improvement from the middle of April to the middle of June; certainly
as marked as the improvement from the beginning of the experiment in
January, to April 12, the date of Dr. Anderson’s letter.

Finally, attention may be called to the photographs of Messrs. Stapleton,
Bellis, and W. L. Anderson, which are introduced primarily to show
the physical makeup and muscular development of the men composing this
student group. The photographs of Stapleton were taken in April, 1904,
after he had been under experiment for three months. The photographs of
Bellis and W. L. Anderson were taken prior to the experiment. They all
afford a good illustration of the highly developed muscular mechanism of
different types, with a corresponding adaptability for different lines of
muscular effort.


REACTION TIME.

Through the courtesy and kind co-operation of Dr. Charles H. Judd,
in charge of the Yale Psychological Laboratory, these students were
subjected to the same careful tests during the five months of their
experiment as were applied to the soldier detail. The results which are
presented in the following report, kindly prepared by Dr. Judd, indicate
quite clearly that there was no general nervous change in the reactors
as a result of the low proteid diet. The data presented by Dr. Judd in
this connection will be found in the accompanying tables, which, while
indicating no noticeable improvement in the nervous condition of the men,
make it quite plain that no deterioration whatever occurred as the result
of the lowered proteid metabolism.


REPORT ON REACTION.

Reaction tests with the group of University students were conducted in
essentially the same way as were the reaction tests with the soldiers.
Details in regard to the method and apparatus employed need not be
repeated. They can be found on pages 274 to 276.

Two new tests were added to the regular reaction determinations. One of
these consisted in taking a record of the number of taps which could be
executed in ten seconds. The reactor was seated before a table on which
was fastened a telegraph key. He held the key between his thumb and first
two fingers, and at a given signal began tapping as rapidly as possible
until told to stop. Each time he tapped he closed an electric circuit.
The current thus made was carried through a marker which indicated on
a smoked paper each make and break at the key. A time line from a rod
vibrating at the rate of once every twentieth of a second was traced on
the smoked paper parallel with the marker record. By a comparison of the
time line with the marker record, it was easy to determine the number of
taps made in ten seconds. At first, the number of taps per second were
counted, but the results showed such uniformity from second to second on
a given day that only the net results for the whole ten seconds are given
in the tables.

[Illustration: W. L. ANDERSON

BELLIS

_Photographs taken prior to the experiment._]

The second test added to the reaction tests was undertaken to determine
the steadiness of the subjects. Two brass rods 40 cm. long were held in
a vertical position at a distance of 7 mm. from each other. The subject
took in his right hand a brass rod 40 cm. long and 5 mm. in diameter and
tried to pass the end of this rod up and down between the vertical rods
without touching them. The subject’s relation to the vertical rods may
be further defined by saying that he stood directly in front of them
and reached out nearly at arm’s length. The vertical rods were at about
the height of his chest. In order to get a record of the accuracy with
which the subject moved the hand-rod up and down without touching the
vertical rods, the vertical rods and the hand-rod were connected with the
two poles of an electric circuit. Whenever they touched they closed the
circuit, and a marker placed in the same circuit recorded the fact on a
smoked paper record. The time was recorded in parallel with this record,
so that any long continued contact could be measured. For the most part,
contacts were only of very brief duration. In reporting the results of
this test, every contact made while passing the rod once downward and
once upward is counted as at least one. Continued contacts are recorded
as two, three or more, according to the period of duration. Where there
are such added counts because of continued contacts, a second quantity
is given in the tables after the first. This second quantity, which is
enclosed in parenthesis, indicates merely the number of contacts without
reference to whether they are long or short.

No special comments are necessary to explain the tables. Tables 1-5
report in sigmas, or thousandths of a second, the average time of ten
reactions on the date, and for the subject, indicated. In the third
column, is the mean variation for the series of ten reactions.

Table 6 shows the general averages by the month for a given individual,
and in the sixth column the general average of all the determinations for
each reactor. The fourth column in each of the earlier tables shows how
much the results of a given day vary from the final general average. All
the tables give, at the bottom, group averages whenever the full series
is present.

Table 7 gives the number of taps executed in ten seconds at each
successive test. The dates are not given in detail, but are the same as
those of the reaction tests.

Table 8 gives the monthly averages of taps.

Table 9 presents the results of the steadiness tests.

The three sets of results, namely, those from reaction, tapping, and
steadiness, differ from each other. On the whole, the reactions grow
longer; the tapping varies, but shows neither decided improvement nor
deterioration; while steadiness improves very decidedly.

The comment made on the results obtained with the soldiers applies here
so far as the reaction tests are concerned. These tests were not repeated
with sufficient frequency to reduce the reaction to automatic performance.

The tapping is such a simple performance that improvement is not to be
expected. The absence of any general improvement or deterioration argues
for an absence of any general nervous change in the reactors.

The improvement in steadiness is in part at least, probably in very large
measure, due to the fact that the subjects became more familiar with the
test and approached it with less of the embarrassment which attends a new
and unfamiliar test.

The lengthening of the reaction times indicates a less intense
concentration of the subject upon the work in hand. The slightest
relaxation of attention puts the subject behind in responding to the
signal. It was clear to superficial observation, especially in certain
individual cases, that the subject was giving less attention in the
later experiments. This lack of concentration is not obviously related
to the changes in diet. Indeed, the fact that no corresponding falling
off appears in the tapping would seem to argue that the lack of attention
in the reaction tests was not due to deep-seated nervous conditions, so
much as to growing impatience on the part of the reactors with the ordeal
of being tested. The tapping experiment is less likely to be affected by
lack of interest on the part of the subject, because here the subject is
called upon to be constantly active, and there is no such opportunity
for attention to lapse as is furnished by the intervals which intervene
between successive reactions. The tapping is accordingly perhaps the best
series on which to base final judgment as to the nervous condition of the
men. Here, there appear the variations which show in any ordinary series,
but there is no steady improvement through growing familiarity with the
test, nor any laxness of attention to produce relatively unfavorable
results.

Mr. Steele and Dr. McAllister are largely responsible for the actual
collection of the data on which this report is based.

                                                      (Signed) C. H. JUDD.


TABLE 1.—FEBRUARY, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |  19| 153.5 |13.8| 31.4 || 26 | 192.2 |19.4|  7.3 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|  18| 261.0 |82.5| 32.5 || 27 | 293.6 |71.0| 65.1 |
  |III. Bellis        |  16| 189.3 |40.0|  8.2 || 26 | 182.3 |18.5|  0.5 |
  |IV. Donahue        |  17| 173.6 |43.0| 28.4 || 24 | 182.7 |14.5| 19.3 |
  |V. Jacobus         |  17| 197.3 |14.7| 27.6 || 24 | 178.2 |18.3| 46.7 |
  |VI. Schenker       |  17| 162.3 |29.7| 67.6 || 24 | 209.8 |46.6| 20.1 |
  |VII. Stapleton     |  19| 185.1 |31.6| 23.9 ||    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages            188.8                                       |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |VIII. Callahan*    |  18| 156.2 |10.4| 37.0 || 25 | 210.8 |27.2| 17.6 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  [*] Kept separate because series of tests is not complete.


TABLE 2.—MARCH, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson G. W.  |    |       |     |     || 11 | 181.6 |38.3|  3.3 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|  8 | 235.4 | 50.4| 69.0|| 10 | 207.3 |32.2| 21.2 |
  |III. Bellis        |  8 | 174.0 | 44.4|  7.8|| 15 | 180.8 |21.8|  1.0 |
  |IV. Donahue        |  2 | 201.6 | 24.8|  0.4||  9 | 214.7 |29.3| 12.7 |
  |V. Jacobus         |  2 | 207.5 | 14.4| 17.4||  9 | 189.9 |11.9| 35.0 |
  |VI. Schenker       |  2 | 283.5 | 98.0| 53.6||  9 | 296.9 |74.9| 67.0 |
  |VII. Stapleton     |  4 |  211.1|41.7|  2.1 || 11 | 205.4 |14.6|  3.6 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages     |                              | 210.9 |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |  3 | 202.0 |23.9|  8.8 || 10 | 197.0 |29.0|  3.8 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson G. W.  | 18 | 181.3 |25.1|  3.6 || 26 | 170.5 |26.1| 14.4 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.| 17 | 189.3 |41.3| 39.2 ||    |       |    |      |
  |III. Bellis        | 22 | 193.5 |16.5| 11.7 || 29 | 181.0 | 8.5|  0.8 |
  |IV. Donahue        | 23 | 224.9 |53.7| 22.9 ||    |       |    |      |
  |V. Jacobus         | 16 | 239.6 |41.0| 14.7 || 23 | 196.7 |27.2| 28.2 |
  |VI. Schenker       | 16 | 281.9 |80.8| 52.9 ||    |       |    |      |
  |VII. Stapleton     |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages     |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |VIII. Callahan     | 17 | 200.9 |23.0|  7.7 || 24 | 179.9 |20.6| 13.3 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 3.—APRIL, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. | 22 | 202.8 |10.6| 17.9 || 29 | 182.9 | 6.7|  2.0 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|    |       |    |      || 29 | 195.0 |20.3| 33.5 |
  |III. Bellis        | 19 | 193.0 |27.2| 11.2 || 26 | 182.5 |18.2|  0.7 |
  |IV. Donahue        | 20 | 198.4 | 7.0|  3.6 || 27 | 191.6 |37.6| 10.4 |
  |V. Jacobus         | 20 | 253.1 |70.7| 28.2 || 27 | 221.3 |14.7|  3.6 |
  |VI. Schenker       | 21 | 229.4 |33.0|  0.5 || 28 | 250.1 |78.3| 20.2 |
  |VII. Stapleton     |    |       |    |      || 29 | 217.1 |30.5|  8.1 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages                                    | 205.8 |           |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+-----------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |  21| 205.5 |12.5| 12.3 ||                        |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++------------------------+


TABLE 4.—MAY, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |    |       |    |      || 13 | 181.2 |16.5|  3.7 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|    |       |    |      || 10 | 202.1 |12.1| 26.4 |
  |III. Bellis        |    |       |    |      || 10 | 185.5 |19.4|  3.7 |
  |IV. Donahue        |    |       |    |      ||    |       |    |      |
  |V. Jacobus         |  4 | 240.6 |42.4| 15.7 || 11 | 234.2 |40.0|  9.3 |
  |VI. Schenker       |  5 | 214.3 |24.0| 15.6 ||    |       |    |      |
  |VII. Stapleton     |    |       |    |      || 11 | 224.4 |15.9| 15.4 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages                                                        |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. ||    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from ||Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. ||    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. | 20 | 199.6 | 8.2| 14.7 || 27 | 190.7 |12.1|  5.8 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|    |       |    |      || 24 | 246.4 |34.9| 17.9 |
  |III. Bellis        | 18 | 185.8 | 3.4|  4.0 || 24 | 171.3 |10.3| 10.5 |
  |IV. Donahue        | 18 | 217.2 |18.0| 15.2 || 25 | 207.1 |19.5|  5.1 |
  |V. Jacobus         | 18 | 235.5 |39.6| 10.6 || 25 | 245.4 |29.7| 20.5 |
  |VI. Schenker       | 19 | 234.3 |40.5|  4.4 || 26 | 196.9 |16.9| 33.0 |
  |VII. Stapleton     | 18 | 201.1 |11.7|  7.9 || 25 | 217.8 |16.5|  8.8 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages                                    | 210.8 |           |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------++----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 5.—JUNE, 1904.

  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |                   |    |       |    | Var. |
  | Name.             |Date| Avg.  |M.V.| from |
  |                   |    |       |    | G.A. |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |  3 | 197.4 |16.8| 12.5 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|  7 | 226.8 |20.3|  1.7 |
  |III. Bellis        |  7 | 162.0 | 8.4| 19.8 |
  |IV. Donahue        |  1 | 208.4 |31.7|  6.4 |
  |V. Jacobus         |  1 | 284.6 |45.6| 59.7 |
  |VI. Schenker       |  3 | 228.6 |43.3|  1.3 |
  |VII. Stapleton     |  7 | 210.4 |34.2|  1.4 |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+
  |Group averages     |    | 216.9 |    |      |
  +-------------------+----+-------+----+------+


TABLE 6.

  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  | Name.             | February. |   March.  |   April.  |
  |                   +-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |                   |  Avg. of all Tests for the Month. |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |   177.9   |   177.8   |   192.9   |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|   277.3   |   210.7   |   195.0   |
  |III. Bellis        |   185.8   |   182.3   |   187.8   |
  |IV. Donahue        |   178.1   |   213.4   |   195.0   |
  |V. Jacobus         |   187.8   |   208.4   |   237.2   |
  |VI. Schenker       |   186.1   |   200.7   |   239.8   |
  |VII. Stapleton     |   185.0   |   208.3   |   217.1   |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Monthly averages   |   196.8   |   200.2   |   209.3   |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |   183.5   |   194.9   |   205.5   |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  | Name.             |    May.   |   June.   |  General  |
  |                   +-----------+-----------+  Avg. of  |
  |                   |  Avg. of all Tests    | all Tests.|
  |                   |    for the Month.     |           |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |   190.5   |   197.4   |   184.9   |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|   224.3   |   226.8   |   228.5   |
  |III. Bellis        |   178.5   |   162.0   |   181.8   |
  |IV. Donahue        |   212.2   |   208.4   |   202.0   |
  |V. Jacobus         |   238.9   |   284.6   |   224.9   |
  |VI. Schenker       |   215.2   |   228.6   |   229.9   |
  |VII. Stapleton     |   214.4   |   210.4   |   209.0   |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |Monthly averages   |   210.6   |   216.9   |           |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |           |           |   193.2   |
  +-------------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+


TABLE 7.

  +-------------------+-------------++----------------------++-----------+
  | Name.             | February.   || March.               || April.    |
  |                   +-------------++----------------------++-----------+
  |                   |               No. of taps in 10 sec.             |
  +-------------------+------+------++-----+------+----+----++----+------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. | 88   | 78   ||     | 64   | 76 | 72 || 78 | 72   |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.| 81   | 86   || 76  | 84   | 77 |    ||    | 83   |
  |III. Bellis        | 84   | 90   || 78  | 78   | 80 | 76 || 78 | 69   |
  |IV. Donahue        | 80   | 89   || 81  | 83   | 85 |    || 86 | 85   |
  |V. Jacobus         | 70   | 82   || 75  | 77   | 72 | 76 || 77 | 78   |
  |VI. Schenker       | 62   | 65   || 70  | 64   | 64 |    || 66 | 63   |
  |VII. Stapleton     | 87   |      || 68  | 71   |    |    ||    | 77   |
  +-------------------+------+------++-----+------+----+----++----+------+
  |Group averages     | 78.8 |      ||     | 74.4 |    |    ||    | 75.3 |
  +-------------------+------+------++-----+------+----+----++----+------+
  |VIII. Callahan     | 82   | 75   || 89  | 83   | 78 | 88 || 86 |      |
  +-------------------+------+------++-----+------+----+----++----+------+

  +-------------------+---------------------++-------------++------+
  | Name.             | May.                || June.       ||      |
  |                   +---------------------++-------------++------+
  |                   |         No. of taps in 10 sec.             |
  +-------------------+----+----+----+------++-------------++------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |    | 78 | 71 | 72   || 76          || 75.0 |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|    | 78 |    | 85   || 78          || 80.9 |
  |III. Bellis        |    | 80 | 78 | 67   || 72          || 78.0 |
  |IV. Donahue        |    |    | 90 | 86   || 88          || 85.3 |
  |V. Jacobus         | 75 | 90 | 75 | 80   || 74          || 77.3 |
  |VI. Schenker       | 67 |    | 66 | 70   || 65          || 65.6 |
  |VII. Stapleton     |    | 81 | 79 | 77   || 74          || 77.1 |
  +-------------------+----+----+----+------++-------------++------+
  |Group averages     |    |    |    | 76.7 || 75.4        ||      |
  +-------------------+----+----+----+------++-------------++------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |    |    |    |      ||             || 83   |
  +-------------------+----+----+----+------++-------------++------+


TABLE 8.

  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
  |                   |February.| March.  | April.  |  May.   |  June.  |
  |                   |         |         |         |         |         |
  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
  |       Name.       |    Avg. of all Determinations for the Month.    |
  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |   83    |   71    |   75    |   74    |   76    |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|   84    |   79    |   83    |   81    |   78    |
  |III. Bellis        |   87    |   78    |   69    |   74    |   72    |
  |IV. Donahue        |   85    |   83    |   85    |   90    |   88    |
  |V. Jacobus         |   76    |   74    |   78    |   80    |   74    |
  |VI. Schenker       |   64    |   66    |   65    |   69    |   74    |
  |VII. Stapleton     |   87    |   70    |   79    |   78    |   74    |
  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
  |Monthly averages   |   81    |   74    |   76    |   81    |   75    |
  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |   79    |   85    |   86    |         |         |
  +-------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+


TABLE 9.

  +-------------------+-------------++---------------------------+
  |                   |  February.  ||           March.          |
  |     Name.         +-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |                   |Date.|       ||Date.|       |Date.|       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. | 19  |34 (28)|| 11  |27 (23)| 26  |20 (17)|
  |II. Anderson, W. L.| 27  |48 (37)|| 10  |72 (59)| 17  |49 (41)|
  |III. Bellis        | 16  |57 (43)||  8  |43 (37)| 29  |30 (24)|
  |IV. Donahue        | 17  |45 (40)||  2  |27 (21)| 23  |35 (30)|
  |V. Jacobus         | 17  |37 (30)||  9  |76 (63)| 16  |35 (31)|
  |VI. Schenker       | 17  |75 (66)||  9  |67 (58)|     |       |
  |VII. Stapleton     | 19  |44 (33)|| 11  |32 (26)|     |       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |VIII. Callahan     | 18  |29 (26)|| 17  |24 (20)|     |       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+

  +-------------------+-------------++---------------------------+
  |                   |   April.    ||             May.          |
  |     Name.         +-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |                   |Date.|       ||Date.|       |Date.|       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. | 29  |20 (15)|| 20  |15 (13)|     |       |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|     |       || 10  |26 (19)|     |       |
  |III. Bellis        | 26  |40 (24)|| 18  |23 (18)|     |       |
  |IV. Donahue        | 27  |24 (22)|| 25  |18 (16)|     |       |
  |V. Jacobus         | 20  |24 (20)|| 11  |27 (18)|  25 |20 (15)|
  |VI. Schenker       | 21  |63 (54)|| 19  |45 (39)|     |       |
  |VII. Stapleton     | 29  |30 (22)|| 16  |11 (10)|     |       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |     |       ||     |       |     |       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------++-----+-------+-----+-------+

  +-------------------+-------------+
  |                   |    June.    |
  |     Name.         +-----+-------+
  |                   |Date.|       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------+
  |I. Anderson, G. W. |  3  | 5     |
  |II. Anderson, W. L.|  7  |12 (9) |
  |III. Bellis        |  7  |16 (12)|
  |IV. Donahue        |  1  | 9     |
  |V. Jacobus         |  1  |18 (14)|
  |VI. Schenker       |  3  |30 (24)|
  |VII. Stapleton     |  7  | 0     |
  +-------------------+-----+-------+
  |VIII. Callahan     |     |       |
  +-------------------+-----+-------+


GENERAL SUMMARY.

It is quite evident from a study of the results obtained in the foregoing
experiments that young, vigorous men of the type under observation,
trained in athletics, accustomed to the doing of vigorous muscular work,
can satisfy all the true physiological needs of their bodies and maintain
their physical strength and vigor, as well as their capacity for mental
work, with an amount of proteid food equal to one-half, or one-third,
that ordinarily consumed by men of this stamp. As the results show, all
these men reduced their rate of proteid metabolism in such degree that
the amount of nitrogen excreted daily during the period of the experiment
averaged 8.8 grams, implying a metabolism of about 55 grams of proteid
matter per day.

In other words, these athletes were able to reduce their nitrogenous
metabolism to as low a level as many of the men of the professional group
and of the soldier group, and this with not only maintenance of health
and strength, but with a decided increase in their muscular power.

Metabolized nitrogen per kilo of body-weight for all these men, with one
exception, during the experiment amounted to 0.108 to 0.134 gram per day,
fully as low as was obtained with the members of the soldier detail on
their prescribed diet. It is clear, therefore, that physiological economy
in nutrition is as safe for men in athletics as for men not accustomed to
vigorous exercise. There is obviously no physiological ground for the use
of such quantity of proteid food, or of total nutrients, as the prevalent
dietary standards call for.

The athlete, as well as the less active man (physically), or the
professional man, can meet all his ordinary requirements with an intake
of proteid food far below the quantities generally consumed, and this
without increasing in any measure the amount of non-nitrogenous food.




IV. THE SYSTEMIC VALUE OF PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN NUTRITION.


It is one of the axioms of physiology that the majority of the diseases
of mankind are due to, or are connected with, perversions of nutrition.
General or local disturbances of metabolism are broadly responsible
for disease, and with a due recognition of this fact it may be well to
consider more specifically whether greater economy in the consumption
of food, _i. e._, a restriction of the daily diet to amounts more
commensurate with the physiological needs of the body, may not be of
value in preventing disease, or prove of use in combating disease when
the latter has manifested itself.

Broadly speaking, the extent and character of the metabolic processes of
the body are dependent in large measure upon the amount and character of
the diet. Further, it is equally certain that the chemical composition
of the blood and lymph is quickly affected by the amount and character
of the food materials absorbed from the alimentary canal. Even in the
matter of secretion of the digestive juices, we have learned, through the
recent experiments of Pawlow, that the chemical composition and solvent
action of these fluids may be modified by the amount and character of
the food fed. How much more, then, may we expect the intricate processes
of cell and tissue metabolism to be modified by changes in the chemical
composition of the blood and lymph that bathe them.

Further, recognizing as we must the extreme sensitiveness of the central
and peripheral parts of the nervous system to changes in the composition
of the blood, we see suggested indirect ways by which metabolism, both
general and local, may be modified by influences exerted upon the
nervous system, whereby the nutritive condition of individual structures
may undergo change. Vasomotor influences, controlled as they are by
nerve fibres, which in turn are sensitive to the conditions of their
environment, likewise indirectly affect the rate and character of tissue
metabolism; a fact which may serve to emphasize the many ways whereby
the metabolism of an organ or tissue may be modified through the primary
influence of a diet which, controlling in a measure the volume and
character of the circulating blood and lymph, must of necessity exert an
influence more or less extended.

The one factor above all others that tends to increase the extent of
proteid katabolism is the amount of proteid food ingested. Increase in
the amount of the albuminous foodstuffs is at once, or speedily, followed
by an increase in the output of nitrogenous waste products, the latter
constituting a good measure of the extent of proteid metabolism going
on in the body. We have been taught to believe that the healthy adult
under ordinary conditions of life needs for the maintenance of health,
strength, bodily and mental vigor, about 118 grams of proteid food daily.
This amount of albuminous food, if metabolized, means at least 16 grams
of nitrogen in the urine, in the form of urea, uric acid, creatinin,
purin bases, and other nitrogenous products more or less closely related.
Under the stress of modern conditions and following the dictates of an
acquired taste, the daily intake of proteid food in many individuals
at least far exceeds the above figures, with an increase of proteid
katabolism equal to 18 or more grams of nitrogen in the 24 hours’ urine.

When we recall that these 18 grams, or more, of nitrogen in the urine
reach the final stage of urea, etc., only by passing through a series
of stages, each one of which means the using up of a certain amount
of energy, to say nothing of the energy made use of in digestion,
absorption, etc., we can easily picture to ourselves the amount of
physiological labor which the daily handling by the body of such amounts
of proteid food entails. Further, it needs very little imagination to see
that a large amount of energy is used up in passing on these nitrogenous
waste products from organ to organ, or from tissue to tissue, on the way
to elimination, and we can fancy that liver and kidneys must at times
rebel at the excessive labor they are called upon to perform.

Moreover, the thought suggests itself that possibly these waste products
of proteid metabolism, the leucomaines so abundantly formed in the
breaking down of proteid material, are not wholly free from objectionable
features. If so, an excess of such products might be advantageously
dispensed with. Indeed, we have what seems abundant evidence tending to
show that many of the nitrogenous waste products elaborated in the body
through the breaking down of proteid materials are possessed of more or
less physiological action. Even that direct antecedent of urea, ammonium
carbamate, which we have reason to believe is formed more or less
generally throughout the tissues of the body, is not above suspicion. To
be sure, Nature has provided a mechanism in the hepatic cells whereby it
is quickly transformed into the harmless urea, but it is only necessary
to join the portal vein to the hepatic vein, thereby throwing the liver
out of the circuit, in order to see the effect of an excess of proteid
food. Under such conditions, this is followed by the appearance of all
the symptoms of poisoning with ammonium carbamate, _i. e._, convulsions
ending in death.[45]

Further, we may refer to the observations of Mallet[46] with creatin and
creatinin, two conspicuous nitrogenous bases present in muscle, which
show unmistakably that these bodies tend to retard slightly the action
of the heart. This seems to be their most decided physiological effect,
although large doses likewise cause a slight frontal headache, with some
general nervous agitation. Attention may also be called to the extremely
important experiments of Minkowski,[47] in which he found that adenin—one
of the purin bases formed in the breaking down of cell nuclei—has a
most marked toxic action, both on man and on dogs. Adenin affects the
circulatory apparatus very strikingly, increasing the heart’s action,
etc.; it acts on the mucous membrane of the duodenum, causing an acute
inflammation, thus leading to continuous vomiting, and in addition it has
a local action on the kidneys, giving rise to a deposition in the kidney
itself of spheroliths of uric acid, or urates, which leads to an acute
nephritis with albuminuria, from which the animal speedily dies.

The alloxuric bases likewise cause fever when injected into the
circulation or taken per os,[48] and according to the recent observations
of Mandel[49] there is a very noticeable relationship between the amount
of alloxuric bases eliminated through the urine and the temperature of
the body in cases of aseptic fevers, indicating that these substances,
with possibly other incomplete products of tissue metabolism, are
important factors in the production of febrile temperatures.

Reference may also be made to our general knowledge regarding the
relationship between uric acid and gouty affections, including
rheumatism, to say nothing of the possible relationship between uric acid
and many other diseases less clearly established. The broader question
deserving attention just here, however, is that all of the so-called
leucomaines which, as Gautier states, are being formed continuously
in the animal tissues side by side with the formation of urea and
carbonic acid, and at the expense of the nitrogenous elements or proteid
matter, are more or less toxic in their properties, at least under
certain conditions of the body. It is perfectly clear that there are a
large number of leucomaines, or nitrogenous waste products, which are
indissolubly connected with the metabolism of cell protoplasm, and the
formation of these substances is augmented by a diet rich in proteid
matter.

It is well understood that the excretions of all living organisms, both
plant and animal, are more or less poisonous to the organisms which
produce and excrete them. The substances so formed originate in the
metabolic changes by which complex organic molecules are broken down
into simpler compounds. As stated by Vaughan and Novy,[50] “we have
good reason for believing that the proteid molecule has certain lines
of cleavage along which it breaks when certain forces are applied, and
that the resulting fragments have also lines of cleavage along which
they break under certain influences, and so on until the end-products,
urea, ammonia, water, and carbon-dioxide, are reached; also that
some of these intermediate products are highly poisonous has been
abundantly demonstrated.” It would therefore seem self-evident that the
nitrogenous waste products of the body, _i. e._, the products of proteid
katabolism, may be more or less dangerous to the welfare of the body,
and consequently there would seem to be reason in the assumption that
greater freedom from disease—especially from the so-called autogenous
diseases—might be expected where greater care is exercised in the amount
of proteid food consumed.

It is generally understood, or at least is frequently stated by medical
writers, that certain febrile conditions are autogenous, and Brunton has
made the assertion that the condition termed “biliousness,” and which
is most prone to occur in persons who eat largely of proteid foods, is
due to the formation of poisonous alkaloidal-like substances which might
well be classified under the broad term of leucomaines. To repeat, there
are a great many observations and some facts which warrant the view
that the nitrogenous waste products of the body—the products of proteid
katabolism—are more or less dangerous to the well-being of the organism,
and hence there seems justification for the belief that there is greater
safety for health and longevity in adopting dietetic habits that are more
in accord with the real needs of the body.

The writer’s opinion upon this question has been greatly strengthened
by the large numbers of letters he has received—during the course of
this inquiry—from persons all over the world, many of whom in their
search for health and strength have adopted more frugal methods of
living, and who have found relief in an abstemiousness which, compared
with ordinary dietetic standards, would seem quite inadequate to support
life, yet they have recovered health and strength, and by the judicious
practice of physiological economy in their diet have maintained health
and vigor, with capability for work that has proved a perpetual surprise
to themselves and their friends. The writer’s faith in these spontaneous
statements made by persons wholly unknown to him has been augmented
by his personal knowledge of people suffering with various troubles,
who have found relief by the simple use of reason and judgment in the
taking of food, with a view to lowering the rate of proteid metabolism.
There is no question in the mind of the writer that excessive proteid
decomposition within the body entails possible danger.

If it is true, on the other hand, that the healthy organism needs a daily
intake of 118 grams of proteid food more or less, in order to maintain
physiological equilibrium, to keep up physical and mental vigor, and to
preserve the normal power of resistance to the incursions of disease,
then we must consider that the good overbalances the evil, and that
evil exists in order that good may be accomplished. We are certainly
justified, however, in saying, on the basis of our daily observations
made on a large number of individuals and extending over many months,
that there is no apparent need for any such amount of proteid food as is
ordinarily consumed by the average individual.

We can point to various persons who, for periods ranging from six months
to a year, have metabolized daily 5.5 to 7.5 grams of nitrogen instead
of 16 to 18 grams, _i. e._, they have subsisted quite satisfactorily
on an amount of proteid food daily, equal to one-third or one-half
the amount ordinarily considered as necessary for the maintenance of
health and strength, and this without unduly increasing the amount
of non-nitrogenous food. Further, our observations have shown that
with this great reduction in the consumption of proteid food, with
corresponding diminution of proteid katabolism, body-weight can be
maintained at a stationary figure, after the body has once adjusted
itself to the new conditions. Moreover, there is marked increase in
physical strength as demonstrated by repeated dynamometer tests on
many individuals, which may perhaps be ascribed to the greater freedom
of blood and lymph, as well as of muscle-plasma, from nitrogenous
extractives. Lastly, we have failed to find any falling off in physical
or mental vigor, any change in the hæmoglobin-content of the blood, or
in the number of erythrocytes. In fact, all our observations agree in
showing that it is quite possible to reduce with safety the extent of
proteid katabolism to one-third or one-half that generally considered
as essential to life and strength. In other words, there is perfect
safety in a lowered proteid metabolism, and we are inclined to raise
the question whether a daily diet containing one-half, or even less,
the amount of proteid food ordinarily consumed does not come nearer to
the normal and natural requirements of the healthy body than the more
elaborate standards we have gradually adopted.

Here, then, we have suggested a radical change in diet which experiment
shows is perfectly safe, and we are disposed to urge that there is great
systemic value, both in health and in many forms of disease, in such a
change. It is obvious, as previously stated, that the smallest amount
of food that will serve to maintain bodily and mental vigor, keep up
bodily strength, and preserve the normal powers of resistance to disease,
is the ideal diet. Any excess over and above what is really needed for
these purposes imposes just so much of an unnecessary strain upon the
organism. It entails a wasteful expenditure of energy that might better
be preserved for future emergencies. It imposes upon the excretory
organs the needless labor of removing waste products which could well be
dispensed with, to say nothing of the possible physiological action of
these products as they circulate through the body.

Dr. Walker Hall,[51] in his interesting article in “The Practitioner”
on “Metabolism in Gout,” states that “under normal circumstances a man
weighing eleven stone and performing average work requires twenty grams
of nitrogen and three hundred grams of carbon per day.” This statement
is in perfect harmony with generally accepted views, but I should like
to emphasize the fact that all of the twenty-six men we have been
experimenting with at New Haven, representing different types, ages,
and degrees of activity, have been able to maintain health, strength,
and vigor, from six months to a year on a daily quantity of nitrogen
equal to one-half, one-third, and even one-quarter the amount of this
so-called necessary twenty grams. Further, nitrogenous equilibrium was
easily maintained on such quantities of proteid food, and, as before
stated, there was great gain in physical strength. Are we not justified,
therefore, in raising the broad question whether such a radical change in
diet as these facts suggest might not be of systemic value in gout, and
especially in cases where there is a predisposition to gout. Speaking as
a physiologist, the writer is strongly of the opinion, based in part upon
his own observations and in part upon both the voluntary and unconscious
testimony of others, that there is possible great gain to the gouty and
rheumatic individual by a practice of physiological economy in nutrition.

Physiological economy, as the writer defines it, is not prohibition,
but temperance. Moderation in diet, especially in the taking of proteid
foods, means a great saving in the wear and tear of the body machinery.
It must presumably mean greater freedom from many diseases in which
individual organs, such as the liver and kidneys, are frequently
involved. It suggests, likewise, greater freedom from many disturbances
of general metabolism which eventually terminate in a perversion of
nutrition, so marked as to constitute a serious condition of disease.
More specifically, lowered proteid metabolism means diminished
introduction and diminished formation of nitrogenous products of the
purin type, such as xanthin, hypoxanthin, guanin, adenin, etc., as well
as of other nitrogenous bodies less clearly defined. Consequently, we
have as one of the results of such a systemic change in diet a decreased
formation of uric acid, or at least a diminished output of uric acid
through the urine.

Obviously, a lowered proteid intake means, in some measure at least, a
decreased consumption of meat and similar products more or less rich
in free and combined purin bases. This quite plainly must result in
a diminished production of uric acid, but the writer is strongly of
the opinion that we do not as yet possess sufficiently full knowledge
regarding all the ways in which uric acid results in the body. It is
true, we differentiate between endogenous and exogenous uric acid, and
further, we understand quite clearly that variations in the intake
of free and combined purin bases exercise a potent influence upon
the output of uric acid through the urine. We still lack, however,
concise information as to the various ways in which uric acid may be
produced, and its ultimate fate in the body. This is well illustrated
by a recent paper from the Marburg laboratory, in which Kutscher and
Seemann[52] point out the possibility of a production of uric acid in
the animal body synthetically, and likewise suggest that uric acid may
be utilized for the formation of nuclein bases, _i. e_., a reversal of
the oxidative process by which uric acid results from the ingestion of
free or combined nuclein bases, suggesting indeed the possibility of uric
acid and the nuclein bases being produced from each other, according to
the circumstances. Thus, when nucleins or free purin bases are taken
with the food, the organism may utilize this material at once in the
synthesis of nucleins for the use of the body cells. There is no need of
a reduction of the formed uric acid to nuclein bases, and consequently
there is an increased excretion of uric acid through the urine, but
this does not result from a direct transformation of the ingested purin
material into uric acid, but is the result of a sparing of the already
formed uric acid. The nuclein bases thus act as sparers of uric acid.
This view explains, according to Kutscher and Seemann, why feeding with
nuclein bases increases the output of uric acid, and feeding with uric
acid—a sudden overflow of uric acid into the circulation—is followed, as
a rule, by an increased elimination of urea, the uric acid being thus
transformed by energetic oxidation. This hypothesis is brought forward
not merely because it is an interesting suggestion, but mainly because
it illustrates that we do not as yet know fully all the steps in the
production of uric acid, nor do we know how far the uric acid we find and
determine in the urine is a measure of the formation of uric acid in the
body.

Taking our knowledge on these matters as it stands to-day, however, we
find by experiment that lowering the intake of proteid food, with its
consequent corresponding diminution in proteid katabolism, is followed
at once by a marked decrease in the output of uric acid. Let us consider
a few of the data obtained in our experiments. The first case I will
refer to is that of a college athlete (Callahan). For a period of ten
days on his ordinary diet, the average amount of nitrogen in the urine
per day was 22.8 grams, equal to the metabolism of 142.5 grams of proteid
food. During this same period the average daily output of uric acid
was 1.103 grams. For the following four months and a half, on a more
restricted diet, with a marked cutting down of the proteid food, but with
no exclusion of meat, the average daily output of nitrogen through the
urine was 9.04 grams. In other words, for this period of over four months
the extent of proteid katabolism was reduced considerably more than 50
per cent. The average daily output of uric acid for this same period was
0.624 gram, equal to a reduction of about 40 per cent from his normal
excretion.

Another college athlete (Stapleton), on his normal diet, showed an
average excretion of nitrogen through the urine per day, for ten days, of
19.70 grams, while the daily average excretion of uric acid for the same
period was 0.893 gram. On a more restricted diet, with diminished proteid
katabolism, the daily average excretion of nitrogen through the urine for
a period of over four months was 11.06 grams, while the daily average
excretion of uric acid for the same period fell to 0.699 gram. In the
first of these two cases the average daily ratio of uric acid to total
nitrogen during the period of lowered proteid metabolism was 1:14. In the
second case the ratio was 1:16.

A third college student (G. W. Anderson), on his ordinary diet, excreted
through the urine for a period of nine days 17.17 grams of nitrogen as
the daily average, while the average daily output of uric acid for the
same period was 0.956 gram. On the more restricted diet of the next four
or five months his average daily excretion of nitrogen fell to 9.37 grams
per day, while the average daily excretion of uric acid was reduced to
0.632 gram. On his ordinary diet, the ratio of uric acid to nitrogen was
1:18, while later with the diminished proteid metabolism the ratio was
1:14.

Turning to another class, viz., professional men, reference may be made
to the writer, whose average daily nitrogen excretion through the urine
for a period of nearly nine months was 5.699 grams, corresponding to the
metabolism of 35.6 grams of proteid per day. During this same period of
nearly nine months the average daily excretion of uric acid amounted
to 0.392 gram, the ratio of uric acid to total nitrogen being 1:14. In
passing, it may be repeated that the subject of this experiment succeeded
in maintaining a constant body-weight, and he further avers that in
physical and mental vigor he can find no evidence of deterioration,
although the amount of proteid food consumed daily during this long
period was less than 40 grams per day. Further, he was in nitrogenous
equilibrium during this period, although the nitrogen metabolized daily
amounted to only 99 milligrams per kilo of body-weight. Another case in
this same group may be mentioned, principally because the subject for
over a year became a vegetarian, abstaining from all meat. During the
last nine months, this man (Beers) eliminated 8.28 grams of nitrogen
through the urine as the daily average, indicating a metabolism of 51
grams of proteid material per day. During this same period, the average
daily excretion of uric acid was 0.349 gram, the ratio of uric acid to
total nitrogen being 1:23.

The main point to be emphasized in these results is that they show quite
conclusively how greatly the daily output of uric acid may be reduced
by diminishing the intake of proteid food, and thereby restricting
the extent of the proteid metabolism. The ratio of uric acid to the
total nitrogen excreted may or may not be altered; this will depend in
large measure upon the character of the diet, the relative proportion
of free and combined purin bases introduced with the food, etc. As
already stated, we do not know with certainty how far the excreted uric
acid represents the formation of uric acid in the body, but presumably
there is a more or less close relationship, and hence we are doubtless
warranted in saying that the formation of uric acid is diminished, in
essentially the same proportion as its excretion is reduced, with a
lowered proteid intake. Certain it is that several of the persons under
observation, who had troubles of a gouty and rheumatic nature in the
past, have during the course of the experiment experienced relief, with
complete and permanent abeyance of all symptoms. The writer is firmly of
the opinion that ordinary gout and rheumatism are entirely preventable
by reasonable care and judgment in the matter of diet. Whether, when
once firmly established, in aggravated form, they will prove amenable to
dietetic treatment is not so certain, but undoubtedly mild cases will
respond to the beneficial influences of a rational diet, reinforced
by treatment adapted to the removal of urates already deposited.
In any event, due regard for the well known deleterious effects of
purin-containing foods as a source of exogenous uric acid, and with
restriction of proteid metabolism to the true necessities of the body,
should serve as an effective means of preventing all those troubles for
which uric acid is generally held responsible.

The two following tables give a summary of results bearing upon the
excretion of uric acid and its relation to nitrogen and body-weight,
for all the subjects belonging to the “professional group” and the
“student group.” Emphasis should be laid upon the fact that these figures
represent the average daily excretion for the different individuals
through the entire period of the experiment.


AVERAGE DAILY EXCRETION THROUGH THE URINE FOR SEVEN-NINE
MONTHS.—PROFESSIONAL GROUP.

  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               |       |         |      |Ratio of |Uric Acid|          |
  |  Name.        |Body-  |Total    | Uric |Uric Acid| per kilo|Phosphoric|
  |               |weight.|Nitrogen.| Acid.|   to    |of Body- |Acid      |
  |               |       |         |      |Nitrogen.| weight. |P₂O₅.     |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               | kilos | grams   | gram |         |  grams  |  grams   |
  |Chittenden     |  57.0 |  5.69   | 0.392|  1:14   |  0.0068 |  0.90    |
  |Mendel         |  70.0 |  6.53   | 0.419|  1:15   |  0.0060 |  1.46    |
  |Underhill      |  65.0 |  7.43   | 0.516|  1:14   |  0.0079 |  1.28    |
  |Dean           |  65.0 |  8.99   | 0.386|  1:23   |  0.0059 |  1.73    |
  |Beers          |  61.5 |  8.58   | 0.365|  1:23   |  0.0059 |  1.49    |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+


AVERAGE DAILY EXCRETION THROUGH THE URINE FOR FOUR-FIVE MONTHS.—STUDENT
GROUP.

  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               |       |         |      |Ratio of |Uric Acid|          |
  |  Name.        |Body-  |Total    | Uric |Uric Acid| per kilo|Phosphoric|
  |               |weight.|Nitrogen.| Acid.|   to    |of Body- |Acid      |
  |               |       |         |      |Nitrogen.| weight. |P₂O₅.     |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               | kilos | grams   | gram |         |  grams  |  grams   |
  |Anderson, G. W.| 71.0  |  9.37   | 0.632|   1:14  |  0.0089 |   1.75   |
  |Anderson, W. L.| 61.0  | 10.41   | 0.516|   1:20  |  0.0084 |   2.14   |
  |Bellis         | 78.0  |  8.88   | 0.531|   1:16  |  0.0068 |   1.98   |
  |Callahan       | 83.0  |  9.04   | 0.624|   1:14  |  0.0075 |   1.74   |
  |Donahue        | 62.0  |  7.47   | 0.395|   1:19  |  0.0063 |   1.79   |
  |Jacobus        | 56.0  |  7.58   | 0.423|   1:17  |  0.0075 |   1.67   |
  |Schenker       | 73.0  | 10.09   | 0.624|   1:16  |  0.0085 |   2.20   |
  |Stapleton      | 75.0  | 11.06   | 0.609|   1:16  |  0.0093 |   2.64   |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+

Turning now to the third group of men, _i. e._, the soldier detail, under
observation for a period of six months, during five months of which time
they lived on a prescribed diet with diminished content of proteid food,
but with no exclusion of animal food, the following average results are
to be noted:


AVERAGE DAILY EXCRETION THROUGH THE URINE FOR FIVE MONTHS—SOLDIER DETAIL.

  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               |       |         |      |Ratio of |Uric Acid|          |
  |  Name.        |Body-  |Total    | Uric |Uric Acid| per kilo|Phosphoric|
  |               |weight.|Nitrogen.| Acid.|   to    |of Body- |Acid      |
  |               |       |         |      |Nitrogen.| weight. |P₂O₅.     |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+
  |               | kilos | grams   | gram |         |  grams  |  grams   |
  |Oakman         |   62  |  7.42   | 0.405|   1:18  |  0.0065 |   1.39   |
  |Morris         |   59  |  7.03   | 0.450|   1:15  |  0.0076 |   1.25   |
  |Broyles        |   60  |  7.26   | 0.398|   1:18  |  0.0066 |   1.41   |
  |Coffman        |   58  |  8.17   | 0.379|   1:21  |  0.0065 |   1.23   |
  |Sliney         |   60  |  8.39   | 0.647|   1:13  |  0.0107 |   1.32   |
  |Steltz         |   53  |  7.13   | 0.416|   1:17  |  0.0078 |   1.24   |
  |Henderson      |   71  |  8.91   | 0.488|   1:18  |  0.0068 |   1.42   |
  |Fritz          |   72  |  7.84   | 0.642|   1:12  |  0.0089 |   1.58   |
  |Cohn           |   62  |  8.05   | 0.512|   1:15  |  0.0082 |   1.28   |
  |Loewenthal     |   59  |  7.38   | 0.372|   1:19  |  0.0063 |   1.28   |
  |Zooman         |   55  |  8.25   | 0.457|   1:18  |  0.0083 |   1.19   |
  |Bates          |   65  |  8.08   | 0.387|   1:20  |  0.0059 |   1.23   |
  |Davis          |   57  |  8.61   | 0.414|   1:20  |  0.0072 |   1.42   |
  +---------------+-------+---------+------+---------+---------+----------+

These figures are interesting in many ways. First, they make clear that
on the diet prescribed, these men were manufacturing or excreting about
the same amount of uric acid per kilo of body-weight as the men of the
two preceding groups, living more or less with free choice of food. In
other words, all these men, with one and possibly two exceptions, were
practically throwing out only uric acid of endogenous origin, _i. e._,
that which came from the breaking down of the man’s own tissue cells.
Second, it is to be noted that the ratio of uric acid to nitrogen in the
men of this group varies only within narrow limits.

It is very evident from these figures, reinforced by those of the
previous groups, that we can diminish greatly the output of uric acid by
simply restricting the extent of proteid katabolism, through reduction
in the amount of proteid food. Further, we now know that this general
lowering of proteid metabolism can be accomplished not only without
danger to the body, but with a distinct betterment of the physical
condition.

Just here I should like to emphasize one point that appears to me of
primary importance in any consideration of the influence of diet in
gouty affections, and in so doing I merely echo a statement made by
Sir Dyce Duckworth[53], viz., “that the subject of gout, either by
inheritance or acquirement, is so far peculiar in his constitution
that he reacts differently to various agencies, such as climate, food,
etc., from persons not so disposed.” In this connection, let me refer
again to the foregoing table of results obtained with the soldier
detachment, remembering that these thirteen men were living under exactly
the same conditions and consuming the same kind of food each day, and
in essentially the same amounts. Yet notice the striking variation
in the output of uric acid by one of these men (Sliney),—a variation
which shows itself especially when the uric acid is calculated per
kilo of body-weight. How can this variation be accounted for except
on the assumption that there may be personal idiosyncrasies, personal
coefficients of nutrition, natural or acquired, that modify to some
extent the production of uric acid, the oxidation of uric acid, or the
elimination of uric acid from the body?

Lastly, in advocating the possible systemic value of a lowered proteid
metabolism as of value in the prevention of gout, and of other disorders
which have their origin in perverted nutrition, I am inclined to
emphasize the desirability of using common-sense in the application
of dietetic rules, remembering that man is an omnivorous animal, and
that Nature evidently never intended him to subsist solely on a “cereal
diet,” or on any specific form of food to the exclusion of all others. On
matters of diet every man should be a law unto himself, using judgment
and knowledge to the best of his ability, reinforced by his own personal
experiences. Vegetarianism may have its virtues, as too great indulgence
in flesh foods may have its serious side, but there would seem to be no
sound physiological reason for the complete exclusion of any one class
of food stuffs, under ordinary conditions of life. Far more rational
is temperance in place of prohibition, and I am inclined to emphasize
the systemic value of a daily diet so reduced in quantity that the
metabolic processes may be largely decreased, in closer harmony with true
physiological needs, especially those which involve the breaking down of
proteid matter; and in making this suggestion I can add the assurance,
based upon these observations on many individuals, that there is not only
perfect safety but gain to the body, in diminishing proteid metabolism to
a level somewhere near the actual requirements of the individual.




V. ECONOMIC AND SOCIOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF THE RESULTS.


The importance of the foregoing results from an economic and sociological
standpoint is perhaps worthy of a brief consideration. We have learned
that a much smaller amount of albuminous or proteid food than is
ordinarily consumed will suffice for the daily needs of the body. It
remains to be seen whether this fact will gain the popular recognition it
would seem to deserve. Ignoring for the time the matter of physiological
economy and its possible bearing upon health and strength, it is a fair
question to ask why should people indulge in such wasteful extravagance
in the matter of diet when there is no real physiological need for it?
Why not accustom the body to a smaller consumption of food, thereby
saving for other purposes the expenditure which this excess of food
involves?

The question of the daily diet is one of the most important for the
family of small means, and there is no reason why the family treasury
should be so heavily drained for this imaginary need. Simplicity of
living might well be given more careful consideration, and now that we
have convincing proof of much smaller dietetic requirements on the part
of the body, it might be well to consider the practical application these
results naturally suggest. It is obvious from our data, that it is quite
safe to diminish by one-half the amount of albuminous or proteid food
ordinarily consumed, and this without any apparent detriment to health,
and with even gain to the economy. The ordinary forms of proteid food
are, as a rule, the most costly of dietetic articles, and since this
restriction of albuminous food calls for no great increase in the amount
of non-nitrogenous food, it is quite apparent that a great saving in the
daily expenditure can be accomplished.

Obviously, however, there must be a decided change in the attitude of the
public on this question before any great improvement can be hoped for.
Habit and sentiment play such a part in our lives that it is too much
to expect any sudden change of custom. By a proper system of education
commenced early in life it may, however, be possible to establish
new standards, which in time may prevail and eventually lead to more
enlightened methods of living, whereby there will be less drain upon the
resources of the people. With habits firmly fixed and palates calling for
new sensations, reinforced by the prevalent opinion that by hearty eating
lies the road to health and strength, it is easy to foresee difficulty in
the advance of new doctrines along the lines indicated. The pleasure of
eating is not to be minimized. The palate serves as the gateway through
which food passes, and its sensitiveness and power of appreciation are
not to be despised.

Simplicity of diet, however, does not diminish but rather increases the
pleasure of eating, especially when daily restriction in diet—indulged in
until a new habit is formed—has created a greater keenness of appetite,
since under such conditions the palate takes on a new sensitiveness,
and manifests a fuller appreciation of the variations of even a simple
dietary. There is therefore no hardship, nor curtailment of the pleasure
of eating in the restriction of the diet to the real needs of the body.
Neither is there implied any cessation of that kindly hospitality that
delights in the ‘breaking of bread’ with one’s friends. With enlightened
methods of living, on the other hand, will come a truer appreciation of
the dignity of the body, and a lessened desire to manifest one’s feelings
of hospitality by a lavish intemperance that is as unphysiological as it
is wasteful.

For the rich, as well as for the poor, there is need for careful
consideration of this question of intemperance in the daily dietary.
Were this the proper place, it would be easy to adduce figures showing
the great waste which the consumption of food beyond the physiological
requirements of the body entails. It needs no great imagination to
picture the enormous saving per capita, in dollars and cents, by a
reduction of the daily food to a true physiological basis. The saving to
the community, to the family, might well amount to enough to constitute
the difference between pauperism and affluence. The resources of a
community, as well as the resources of the family, are not to be lightly
thrown away. We count the cost of this or that necessity, of this or that
luxury, with careful consideration of the relative need and expense, but
in the matter of living we pay little heed except it may be to exclude
certain dietetic luxuries which seem beyond our purse. We are prone to
fancy that health and strength are fostered by great liberality in the
amount and variety of the daily food provided, and we are apt to express
great concern if all the family and our guests do not avail themselves
to the utmost of the foods so lavishly spread before them. The poorer
man emulates his richer neighbors as soon as his circumstances will
permit, and resources that could be much more advantageously expended for
the good of the family and the home life are practically wasted—to say
nothing of possible injury to health—under the mistaken idea that this
more generous method of living is the surest road to health and strength.

Further, there is ground for thought in the possible economy of time
which an improved condition of health would result in for the working
members of the family. If greater economy in diet will diminish the
number of sick days in the year, thereby increasing the working power of
the wage earner, and if greater strength and efficiency can be acquired
at the same time, the economic value of the proposition is at once
apparent.

Finally, happiness and contentment, which usually appear in direct
proportion to the health and prosperity of the individual, may be counted
upon as becoming more conspicuous in the life of the community. So we see
suggested various ways in which the application of the principles herein
laid down, if consistently adopted and followed, may lead to a betterment
of economic and sociological conditions. The writer, however, leaves to
others, more familiar with sociological problems, the fuller development
of this line of thought.




VI. GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.


When this investigation, the results of which have been detailed in
the foregoing pages was first planned, it was intended to be simply a
physiological study of the minimal proteid requirement of the healthy
man, extended over sufficient time to render the results of scientific
and practical value. There were no special theories involved, no special
system of dietetics in view, but the object was simply to ascertain
experimentally the minimum amount of proteid or albuminous food necessary
for the maintenance of health and strength, under ordinary conditions
of life. The impression in the mind of the writer was that there was
no satisfactory scientific evidence to support the views held by most,
if not all, physiologists regarding the needs of the body for food,
especially nitrogenous or proteid food, and that the dietary standards
universally adopted by scientific men were of very questionable accuracy,
being founded mainly upon the customs and habits of mankind rather than
upon any systematic study of what the actual necessities of the body are.

The results attained have certainly thrown a great deal of light upon
this question of minimal proteid requirement, and the experimental
study has been throughout a purely physiological one, but as the work
has progressed the writer has been more and more impressed with the
importance and significance of the results in their bearing upon the
broader problem of general physiological economy in nutrition. There
is no question, in view of our results, that people ordinarily consume
much more food than there is any real physiological necessity for, and
it is more than probable that this excess of food is in the long run
detrimental to health, weakening rather than strengthening the body, and
defeating the very objects aimed at.

Confining our conclusions to general statements, it may be said that
our results, obtained with a great diversity of subjects, justify
the conviction that the minimal proteid requirement of the healthy
man under ordinary conditions of life is far below the generally
accepted dietary standards, and far below the amounts called for by the
acquired taste of the generality of mankind. Expressed in different
language, the amount of proteid or albuminous food needed daily for the
actual physiological wants of the body is not more than one-half that
ordinarily consumed by the average man. Body-weight (when once adjusted
to the new level), health, strength, mental and physical vigor, and
endurance can be maintained with at least one-half of the proteid food
ordinarily consumed; a kind of physiological economy which, if once
entered upon intelligently, entails no hardship, but brings with it an
actual betterment of the physical condition of the body. It holds out
the promise of greater physical strength, increased endurance, greater
freedom from fatigue, and a condition of well-being that is full of
suggestion for the betterment of health.

Physiological economy in nutrition means temperance, and not prohibition.
It means full freedom of choice in the selection of food. It is not
cereal diet nor vegetarianism, but it is the judicious application of
scientific truth to the art of living, in which man is called upon to
apply to himself that same care and judgment in the protection of his
bodily machinery that he applies to the mechanical products of his skill
and creative power.

Food requirements must of necessity vary with changing conditions, but
with due recognition of this fundamental principle, all the results so
far obtained in this investigation, with a great variety of persons,
point to the conclusion that the real demands of the body for proteid
food do not exceed fifty per cent of the amount generally consumed.
One-half of the 118 grams of proteid food called for daily by the
ordinary dietary standards is quite sufficient to meet all the real
physiological needs of the body, certainly under ordinary conditions of
life; and with most individuals, especially persons not leading an active
out-of-door life, even smaller amounts will suffice. Excess means waste,
but of far greater importance is the unnecessary strain placed upon the
body by this uncalled-for excess of food material, which must be gotten
rid of at the expense of energy that might better be conserved for more
useful purposes.

Further, the _total_ consumption of food by the average individual,
non-nitrogenous as well as nitrogenous, is considerably greater than the
real needs of the body demand, although here we must give closer heed
to the varying requirements of the body incidental to varying degrees
of activity. The man whose work is mainly mental has no real need for
high fuel values in his daily ration. For such a man, a high potential
energy in the daily intake of food is an incubus and not a gain. Body
equilibrium can be maintained on far less than 3000 calories per day by
the brain worker, and in the interest of health, strength, and vigor,
as well as scientific truth, why teach the doctrine that a healthy man
needs, on an average, foodstuffs to furnish 3000 calories or more per
day, with 16 to 18 grams of nitrogen in the form of proteid? Moreover,
as our experiments have clearly indicated, even the man who is called
upon to perform considerable physical work has no apparent need for a
fuel value in his food of 3000 calories per day. No doubt, the man who
works at hard labor for ten or twelve hours a day will require a larger
intake of fats and carbohydrates, sufficient to yield even more than 3000
calories, but this is not true of the moderate worker, nor of the average
man whose work is in large measure mental rather than physical.

Finally, the writer may be permitted to express the hope that the outcome
of this experimental work will serve to arouse scientific and intelligent
interest in a subject which promises fruitful results for the individual,
and for the community.




VII. DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIONS


Photographs of the soldiers were taken a few days prior to the close of
the experiment, just before the men left New Haven at the termination
of their work. Consequently, the pictures show the physical condition
of the men after their long period of low nitrogen diet. Study of these
photographs, especially those of the individuals, gives a correct idea
of the appearance of the men, and shows the character of their muscular
development at the close of their experimental work.

In considering these photographs, it must be remembered that the men as
a class, as stated by Dr. Anderson in his Report, were not particularly
well set up. It is evident, however, that the subjects were in good
physical condition and had not lost any undue amount of flesh or fat. The
two photographs of Fritz, facing pages 198 and 203, show him to have been
in fine physical condition, with even a superabundance of fat. Steltz, on
the other hand, whose photograph is shown facing page 211, was somewhat
fine. This man, however, is of quite different build from his companion,
Coffman, and was in excellent physical condition for certain lines of
gymnastic work.

It may be well at this point to refer the reader to the photographs of
W. L. Anderson and Bellis, facing pages 440 and 442. These men, typical
Yale athletes, were in prime physical condition, and the photographs
were taken prior to the experiment, at a time when they were consuming
their ordinary, rich proteid diet. It is plain, by a comparison of these
photographs, that Steltz was not trained to a much finer point than
W. L. Anderson, although he does lack the full muscular development
characteristic of the Yale athlete.

Sliney, whose photograph is found facing page 272, was likewise in a
somewhat fine condition. He, however, like Steltz, was in splendid
physical shape, so far as can be judged by his general health, spirits
and aptitude for work. The other men of the soldier group, whose
photographs are shown, were not trained down to quite the same degree.
Both Sliney and Steltz, however, had essentially the same body-weight at
the close of the experiment, as on their arrival in New Haven. Steltz,
indeed, weighed a trifle more in April, 1904, than he did in October,
1903. Sliney, on the other hand, had lost about one pound in weight.
It is obvious, therefore, that these two men do not owe their spare
condition to the low proteid diet.

The photographs facing pages 136, 261, 284 and 296 illustrate some of
the methods employed in attempts to improve the bodily movements of the
soldiers.

Among the group of University athletes, the photographs of Stapleton,
facing pages 328 and 366, show the muscular development of a typical
athlete endowed with more than the usual amount of muscular tissue. These
two photographs of Stapleton were taken in April, after the subject
had been for several months on a low proteid diet. There is in the
photographs certainly no suggestion of any loss of muscle tissue, and no
evidence of physical weakness. Stapleton, as has been previously stated,
was an expert in wrestling and events of that character, for which his
heavy muscular build well fitted him.

The photographs of W. L. Anderson and Bellis, facing pages 440 and
442, show, on the other hand, two athletes whose characteristic build
is indicative of ability as gymnasts. More graceful in form, with
smaller joints, and less heavy musculature, these men, at the time the
photographs were taken, were in the pink of condition, and in a high
degree of training for their special fields of athletic work. Emphasis
should be laid upon the fact that at the time these two photographs were
taken, the men in question had not commenced to lower their daily amount
of proteid food. These two photographs are introduced especially to
illustrate the general physical makeup of the men belonging to the group
of University athletes made use of in the experiments.




FOOTNOTES


[1] Die Ernährung des Menschen. Munich, 1876.

[2] Untersuchungen ü. d. Ernähr. schwedischer Arbeiter. Stockholm, 1891.

[3] Ein Beitrag zur Lehre vom Eiweissbedarf des gesunden Menschen.
Pflüger’s Archiv f. d. gesammte Physiologie. Band 48, p. 578.

[4] D. Militärärztl. Zeitschr., 1901, p. 622. Quoted by Hirschfeld,
Archiv. f. Physiologie, 1903, p. 381.

[5] Large calories, or kilogram-degree units of heat.

[6] Jahresbericht für Thierchemie, 1891, p. 369. The figures given in the
above table represent the diet for men doing a moderate amount of work.

[7] Ueber die Ernährung der Italiener. Pflüger’s Archiv. f. d. gesammte
Physiologie, Band 99, p. 1 (1903).

[8] Bulletin No. 46. United States Department of Agriculture, p. 63.

[9] L’Alimentation et les Régimes chez l’Homme sain et chez les Malades,
Paris, 1904.

[10] Untersuchungen über den Eiweissbedarf des Menschen. Pflüger’s Archiv
f. die gesammte Physiologie. Band 41, p. 533.

[11] Beiträge zur Ernährungslehre des Menschen. Virchow’s Archiv für
pathol. Anat. u. Physiol. Band 114, p. 311.

[12] Vergleichende Untersuchungen über die Ernährung mit gemischter
und rein vegetablischer Kost mit Berücksichtigung des Eiweissbedarfes.
Virchow’s Archiv für pathol. Anat. u. Physiol. Band 116, p. 370.

[13] Die Ernährung der Soldaten vom physiologischen und
volkswirthschaftlichen Standpunkt. Achiv f. Physiologie 1903, p. 380.

[14] Ueber die Kost eines Vegetariers. Zeitschr. f. Biologie. Band 25, p.
261.

[15] Ueber den Eiweissbedarf des Erwachsenen mit Berücksichtigung der
Beköstigung in Japan. Archiv f. Hygiene. Band 8, p. 78.

[16] Untersuchungen über die Ernährung der Japaner. Zeitschr. f.
Biologie. Band 25, p. 102.

[17] Ein Beitrag zur Frage der Ernährung bei verringerter Eiweisszufuhr.
Archiv f. Physiologie, Jahrgang 1901, p. 323.

[18] Untersuchungen über Stoffwechsel und Ernährung in Krankheiten.
Zeitschr. f. klin. Medizin. Band 16, p. 550.

[19] Untersuchungen über den Eiweissbedarf des gesunden Menschen. Berlin,
1891.

[20] Ein Stoffwechselversuch an Vegetarianern. Biochemisches Centralblatt
Band 2, p. 144 (1903).

[21] Ueber das Stickstoffgleichgewicht beim erwachsenen Menschen.
Skandinavisches Archiv f. Physiol. Band 10, p. 91.

[22] Untersuchungen über die Eiweissumsetzung des Menschen.
Skandinavisches Archiv f. Physiol. Band 14, p. 121 (1903).

[23] Ueber die Folgen einer ausreichenden, aber eiweissarmen Nahrung. Ein
Beitrag zur Lehre vom Eiweissbedarf. Virchow’s Archiv für pathol. Anat.
u. Physiol. Band 132, p. 91.

[24] Weitere Untersuchungen über die Schädlichkeit eiweissarmer Nahrung.
Pflüger’s Archiv f. die gesammte Physiol. Band 54, p. 61.

[25] Ueber die Folgen einer ausreichenden, aber eiweissarmen Nahrung.
Skandinavisches Archiv f. Physiol. Band 13, p. 375.

[26] Zur Bewertung der vegetarischen Diät. Berliner klin. Wochenschr.
1901. p. 647 and 670. See also, Albu, die vegetarische Diät. Leipzig,
1902, p. 65.

[27] See Zeitschr. f. Biologie. Band 25, p. 255.

[28] Further Investigations among Fruitarians at the California
Agricultural Experiment Station. 1901-1902. U. S. Department of
Agriculture. Bulletin No. 132.

[29] See Horace Fletcher, The A-B-Z of our own Nutrition. (1903.) New
York. p. 48.

[30] For a fuller account of this study, see Chittenden, Physiological
Economy in Nutrition. Popular Science Monthly, June, 1903.

[31] All figures for nitrogen throughout the book, whether referring to
food, urine, or fæces, were obtained by exact chemical analysis, using
the Kjeldahl-Gunning method.

Uric acid was determined by the method of Folin, _i. e._, precipitation
of the urine with ammonium sulphate, etc., and titration with potassium
permanganate.

Phosphoric acid was estimated by titration with a standard uranium
solution, using potassium ferrocyanide as an indicator.

At times, as will be seen from the tables, nitrogen, uric acid, etc.,
were not determined in each day’s urine. In such cases, an aliquot part
of each twenty-four hours’ urine was taken and the analyses made with the
mixed samples for the given period, the figures thus obtained showing the
average daily composition for that period.

[32] All foodstuffs were analyzed from large samples, to diminish as
much as possible the errors of analysis. Nitrogen was determined by the
Kjeldahl-Gunning method, the figures given being the average of closely
agreeing duplicate analyses.

While nitrogen was thus determined in every sample of food by direct
chemical analysis, the fuel value of the food was calculated mainly
by use of the data furnished by the Bulletin issued from the U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations. No. 28

[33] The fæces of this period were separated by lampblack. They were
dried on a water-bath after admixture with alcohol and a little sulphuric
acid, nitrogen being determined by the Kjeldahl-Gunning method on samples
of the dry mixture from the six-day period.

[34] The figures given for weight of fæces during this balance period are
tabulated for convenience as above, but naturally the last yield was not
obtained until the 8th of March. The total of 182 grams, however, is the
exact amount of air-dry fæces collected between the two charcoal layers,
marking off accurately the balance period.

[35] This balance is complicated by the loss of the urine on March 3.
Consequently one-seventh of the total nitrogen of the fæces of the
period, namely 1.401 grams, was deducted from the total fæcal nitrogen.

[36] This balance is somewhat complicated by the fact that on March 4
the urine was lost, so that this day had to be thrown out. Correction on
the fæces, however, was made by deducting one-seventh of the total fæcal
nitrogen, on the assumption that the nitrogen-content was essentially the
same for each day of the seven-day period.

[37] Hamburg steak contained 52 grams meat, 4 grams fat, 63 grams onions,
111 grams bread, each man eating 230 grams.

[38] One cup, total weight 454 grams, but containing small portions of
milk and sugar.

[39] Rice or hominy on being moistened and cooked gains in weight 120 per
cent; or rather, after the excess of moisture has evaporated and the rice
is fried, it shows a gain of that amount. But for boiled rice or hominy,
without drying or frying, there is an increase in weight of 230 per cent,
as usually prepared.

[40] In each bowl of soup were 90 grams of oysters, 20 grams of butter,
and 190 grams of milk.

[41] U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations,
Bulletin 98.

See also “Investigations on the Nutrition of Man in the United States.”
By C. F. Langworthy and R. D. Milner. U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Office of Experiment Stations. Washington, 1904, p. 14.

[42] This average covers the period from April 13 to May 24 only, as Mr.
Bellis was compelled to withdraw from the experiment on the latter date,
owing to an accident in the gymnasium.

[43] The fæces of the period were separated as customary by the ingestion
of lampblack.

[44] Italics inserted by R. H. C.

[45] See Hahn, Massen, Nencki, und Pawlow: Archiv f. exper. Pathol. u.
Pharm. Band XXXII. (1893), p. 161. Also, Nencki, Pawlow, und Zaleski:
Ibid. Band XXXVII., p. 26.

[46] The physiological effect of creatin and creatinin, etc. Bulletin No.
66, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations.

[47] Untersuchungen zur Physiologie und Pathologie der Harnsäure bei
Säugethieren. Archiv f. exper. Pathol. u. Pharm. Band XLI., p. 406.

[48] See Burian and Schur., Archiv f. die gesammte Physiologie. Band
LXXXVII., p. 239.

[49] The alloxuric bases in aseptic fevers. Amer. Journal of Physiology
Vol. X., p. 452.

[50] Ptomaines and Leucomaines, or the Chemical Factors in the Causation
of Disease. Third Edition, 1896. Lea Brothers, p. 550.

[51] The Practitioner. London. July, 1903. p. 61.

[52] Centralblatt für Physiologie. Band XVII, p. 715. 1904.

[53] The Practitioner, July, 1903, p. 83.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN
NUTRITION WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE MINIMAL PROTEID REQUIREMENT OF
THE HEALTHY MAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
